>Go live with your beloved poor for a year Hahaha.. there is a housing project directly across the street from me as I write this. You keep making assumptions! Yes there absolutely is a culture of laziness and irresponsibility. There are a lot of reasons that the poor remain poor, and this is only one of them. Other reasons include the drug war, which disproportionately targets minorities and creates a vast unemployable population due to their criminal records. The school systems are shit--how can you raise yourself out of poverty without a decent education? Unions have declined, meaning working class people no longer have a living wage and must rely on food stamps and other government programs just to survive. There are a lot of reasons the poor stay poor. Blaming it all on bad choices is rather short-sighted. There are public-sector, private-sector and cultural factors contributing to wealth inequality. I will admit to all of these, but the Libertarian ideology only allows for one. Plus, what are you going to do about it? Does society have any responsibility to help people who are trapped in a cycle of poverty and bad choices to better themselves? What about the newborn child who has made no bad choices but to be born poor? Fuck 'em? >any actual assesment of Reality Make one. You state no facts, only that if there were some facts they would agree with you. Not a proper argument. >The rich are rich for a reason and the poor are poor for a reason. The rich are rich for many reasons--personal achievement, inheritance, luck, connections and simply reaping the fruits of a prosperous, harmonious society. There just as many reasons the poor are poor. To take any one reason and say that is the only reason is just like taking the idea of property rights and saying that is the only right worth consideration. >Deep down inside you don't think you've earned it so you want to sacrifice all the rest of us on the altar of your limp wristed weakness. I don't attempt to psychoanalyze you, though I could probably do a much better job having once held the beliefs you are espousing. The thing is I learned from my experience and from the world around me. I see how the system is rigged, in both the public sector and private sector. I know it is possible to make it rich in this country if you have the skill and motivation, but I also know that it is much easier to stay rich if you are born rich and far too much depends on who you know rather than what you know. And nobody would be rich if we didn't have a functioning society, with a large middle class that can afford to buy the goods that entrepreneurs invent! As a business owner, I want to live in a society where the majority of people can afford the crap that I'm peddling. Call me a commie.