"My experiences in WNY as a manufacturing engineer getting laid off 3 times due to outsourcing to china and mexico has shown me that there is an issue, that is not addressed by the MF article's bent on spending. My argument is outsourced jobs, not spending. I agree with the kodak culture. Having gone to RIT with alot of Kodakers that lost jobs because of EK's shift to china and I'd say its more than just ignoring digital. It is the continued investment in china in film processing and ignoring digital. there is a huge film processing plant in china sitting idle. Beyond that, Kodak was more than just film. Medical imagining company and the spun off chemical division they sold are both doing well. By the time they did digital, it was too late. Sad thing is I saw kodak employees buying fuji film because the hated the company so much. I was laid off from Perkin Elmer, now Eaton, building valves for aerospace. It went to Tijuana. I was laid off from Getinge USA building sterilizers, it opened a plant in china, I got laid off with others. Its completion, steris opened a plant in mexico and moved alot of manufacturing there. getinge used to buy copper and stainless plumbing fittings in the usa, now they are only available from china. I worked at liberty pumps, they used to get casting for pumps from usa, it all comes from china along w/ several plastic pumps entirely made in china. http://thedailynewsonline.com/news/article_60eaa658-9226-598b-883f-ae4eadf032c7.html Xerox has outsourced manufacturing and machining to china; I know the engineers who had to do it. IT services are going to http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/06/technology/companies/06xerox.html search more on xerox and hcl tech. Engineers I know that work at Delphi developing automated manufacturing cells that are then packed up and moved to Juarez to run parts for auto industry. http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/10_25/b4183009392434.htm many others are moving there as well. Southco fasteners does the same a Delphi, except they outsource the manufacturing cell to china and run all production there. Closing usa plants for opening chinese ones. http://www.designnews.com/document.asp?doc_id=227116 ""One example of the shifting tide of American fastener production is Southco, which first began manufacturing specialty fastener devices in Essington, PA in 1945. Last year Southco announced plans to close its Brandywine Manufacturing facility in Concordville, PA. Products and technologies are being transferred to Honeoye Falls, NY, Rockledge, FL, Chihuahua, Mexico and Fu Wang and Shanghai, China. Output from Southco’s four Chinese plants rose 40 percent last year. An assembly center is now operating in the Czech Republic."" http://www.massdevice.com/news/covidien-shutters-upstate-ny-plant ""After a round of layoffs last year and a manufacturing move to China, Covidien closes its Watertown, N.Y., plant, leaving nearly 250 out of work."" I must say it wasn't a good move for me to get a engineering degree, should have been in something else. My wife has just stated that I am ""winning friends and influencing people on the the internet now"" /Sarcasm runs deep in this house."