Not sure how Technology Mgmt differs from IS but I would limit your options to be Finance, Accounting, TM/IS. Technology is only going up and people are always going to have problems with it so no problems. Every larger company has an IT department that handles issues from looking for new technology or an IT Service Desk where you answer calls from someone having an issue with their computer. From what I hear from colleagues is experience is huge here. From an IT perspective I think this major would have the highest probability of landing a job. Accounting and Finance is different. If you go down one of those paths, to be the most successful you'll have to take supplement courses to get either a CPA or CFA. Also working in the big accounting firms from what I've seen is super stressful based on when their clients close their books each quarter but is very rewarding. To move up in Accounting you'd want to get the CPA. If you don't have it, you'll plateau at some point and won't get any higher without it really. I chose finance, but did not want to be a financial advisor. I did not like the idea of retaining clients by refers or cold calling. Essentially if you remember the scene on Wolf of Wall Street where Leo gets the little job and makes a huge sale off a cold call, that's what it is like when you first start out. You are pressured to sell insurance and stocks to your friends and family in hope that they refer you to their friends and family..it works for some people and it doesn't for others. Down this path you'd also possibly take the CFA tests and for sure series 6, 66, 7. Currently I'm not doing anything finance related but it is a great background for your personal finances and what not. I would say you want to choose soon though so you can work on getting internships. Internships are huge as it will be a professional reference and if you do well in the position that company could hire you on once you graduate. Hope this helped. TLDR: Get an internship and experience the job.