"Keep in mind this is an opinion piece. The Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) would have indemnified Argentina from virtually all of these suits. FISA lets sovereigns opt out of its protections, which Argentina did. Argentina waived immunity from suit in New York state or federal court and its immunity from the attachment of its assets within the US to satisfy a judgement. In this particular case, it also agreed this issuance of debt would ""rank *pari passu* [with its other debt obligations] and ***without any preference among themselves***"" (emphasis added) (1994 Bondholder Agreement). This is the clause the court used when deciding whether Argentina could pay some bondholders and not others. It is fairly unambiguous that bondholders are all on equal footing. It also added that these debt obligations would rank at least equally with Argentina's other unsecured debt. This was not a coincidence. By issuing in New York and subjecting itself to New York/US law, Argentina was able to obtain a *much* more favorable borrowing rate. Argentina was the drafter of the debt agreement where it promised to treat all borrowers the same, and it was the party who waived its immunities inherent under US law. It benefited greatly from the substantially lower borrowing costs it enjoyed by doing so. Because Argentina waived its sovereign immunities, the court looked to the language in the contract. It states the debt will all be treated the same, and will be subject to NY/US law. It is hard to say it is ""unfair"" for a New York court to enforce a contract Argentina wrote and then subjected itself to New York jurisdiction/law. NOTE: Three US government agencies sided with Argentina (Justice, State, Treasury), claiming FSIA should at least partially apply regardless of waiver. They made mostly policy arguments about how sovereigns should enjoy at least partial immunity. Argentina's debt contract was very liberal with its waiver of sovereign immunity, so it is not surprising the court looked to the actual contract when deciding what rights bondholders have."