"Traditional banks don't put their money onto the stock markets. In fact, the economic crisis was in part caused by the fact that banks were placing money into higher-risk portfolios and doing just that: in the UK there has been a debate for the last few years specifically around ""firewalling"" retail and investment bank operations entirely. What I was discussing was in the retail/consumer sector where the money comes in as mortgages & secured loans and - slightly riskier - unsecured credit, credit cards, etc. In that model, you do not need to be a genius. If I lend you $20k to buy a car and you don't repay me my money plus 8%, I get the car and therefore am unlikely to be seriously out of pocket. The only thing I have to do is make sure I lend to people likely to repay more often than I do to those who will not. And that, well, that's something we've got a few hundred years of experience with.. If I walk onto the NYSE and start throwing around my cash at put option on exotic FX markets that are in turn responding to conditions almost impossible to truly understand, well, I'm sure we'd agree that it's hard to beat the market. That's why the investment banks who specialise in that market don't invest their own money: they make money from investing other people's cash. Clever guys. So we need to understand here there are two very different kinds of banks, with two very different business models, and it was the mixing of them that led to the disaster we've seen. Firewalling them makes sense to me! Communists who think banks are making money out of thin air don't seem to understand that, and so it's not surprising that they seem confused about what a bank is actually there for. Those who do get these two models must see that a retail bank is there to provide finance based on savings held and investment banks are there to help people invest in riskier markets. That does not mean they are ""magic"" or ""evil"". Now, they might argue that fractional reserve banking is a problem. I would imagine many of them would prefer the credit union model instead, but that's a different debate: that's the mechanics and detail, not the institutional need for existence."