Doesn't make any sense, it's just an article for the author to feel like he's a superior strategist to Kohl's leadership & primarily rant about how crappy Amazon treats its 'partners'. However if we accept the examples as fully true, none are relevant. Kohl's isn't at all making itself dependent on Amazon, they're not giving up their control of their e-commerce site, or giving up any control for that matter. So please tell me how his history lessons apply. Unclear of the strategic initiatives? Really? I don't need an MBA to realize, ignoring AWS is probably compensating Kohl's for the moment, that there's plenty. One, it brings in more foot traffic to the store, some of which may have never stepped into a Kohl's in favor of their usual department store that competes with Kohls. Two, it has the potential to increase repeat visits from their existing customers who may need to return a package and hey kohl's takes that too, might as well take a glance while I'm there. Three, it increases their product assortment in Kohl's stores without incurring all the operational/logistic costs of adding new product lines. That's called free money off the margins. These are the kinds of deals that should be lauded; mutually beneficial partnerships between businesses that end up adding more value to the customer. Amazon gets to increase the customer experience by starting to address one of the biggest pains with e-commerce in general: the burdensome process to return something you order online. It's a great idea, and I'm sure they'll partner with other big retailers as well. That doesn't hurt Kohl's, at worst as it expands, the positive impact won't be as great because customers will have more options. no harm done. It's also naive to think Kohl's isn't getting compensated whether it's a marginal thing or some fixed contractual amount Amazon pays to Kohl's or at the minimum, covering all of the involved logistic costs Kohl's incurs to do this. Ugh, I just hate blowhards who want to pour gasoline on anything that irritates them from preconceived biases.