"In general we're getting a more nuanced view of a proposition that might tend to influence policy. ""Amazon creates jobs"" is the implicit suggestion of the headline, and it's worthwhile to take a critical approach rather than simply accepting it as something that should influence our opinions. Letting the mayor open an urea refinery in the centre of town *also* creates jobs, after all, but people tend to have an intuitive grasp of the costs that it would impose on the townsfolk as a whole. You allude to what I think is a fear of asymmetrically developed information: having learnt of the disadvantage of a growing Amazon to potential employees, as compared to the preceding status quo, we proceed on the assumption that the growth of Amazon is a sufficient explanation for the disruption of that status quo, and naively assume that we need merely prevent Amazon's business model from succeeding in order to restore the world to rights, without examining any of the possible harms of our own intervention. That's certainly something I can sympathize with. However, while 'creative destruction' describes something that does indeed happen, it's a bad idea to observe destruction and assume that either the process or the outcome is necessarily creative. 'Destructive destruction' is *also* a thing, and it is inherently cheaper and easier than the creative variety. 'Disruptive' business models often succeed simply because they use technology to bypass regulatory traps, for good or for ill. At times, however, this involves the discovery of a way to offload the costs of the enterprise onto society. A wonderful example of this would be bike-sharing systems. Where I've seen them in North America, in their first generation, they tend to have physical parking stations to which the bikes must be returned. In China, by contrast, systems have developed where one needn't even return the bicycles to any particular location; one merely finds one wherever someone had parked it, and unlocks it by scanning the code on it. The bicycles themselves are not a huge capital cost, so convenience relies on a huge oversupply of bikes that have been parked, dumped, dropped, or hidden by their previous riders all over the public space. Effectively, these companies have managed to make the municipal services responsible for their inventory management."