"I am a female that works for a photo studio in berlin. I work ""part time"" (as in, I started at four hours per day and now I can work up to 8 if there is enough work). I make 8 euro per hour (not a lot but I don't speak fluent German and I scan photos), I have health insurance, I have sick and vacation time (24 days). I am married to a German with a full time job so, of course, I have it better. However, if we didn't make enough money you can go and apply to get help from the government. My husband said they would give him at least 300euro per month. Trick is that since I am a US citizen and looking for a permanent visa in three years they check to make sure you haven't gotten any government aid. They don't want to support more people that can't or don't want to work. That being said my mother-in-law cannot work due to medical reasons and she lives very comfortably in a good apartment. Our last apartment was a studio/one room apartment and we paid 230 euro per month. Even making the money I do without my husband I could afford the basics. Even now we pay 57 euro for electricity. About 20 euro a month for our phones. 20 euro a month for internet. It is way less expensive than the USA. My mom pays about $90 per month (my aunt sometimes has $1,000 electricity bills). Water is another $30. Cellphone another $60, cable and internet another $120. I would say that living in the USA is far more expensive. Edit: to put it very simply. I used to make on my own in the USA about what my husband and I both make, combined, in Germany. In the USA I could barely make ends meet. I lived with my mom and sister. Paid as little rent as I could, barely had enough for food. I had a good job! I was lucky to have health insurance but it was still really expensive to go to the doctor. Here, in berlin, we have a large apartment in a nice neighborhood. With paying rent and all of our must haves every month we have over 500 euro left. That is pretty good. In the USA I was lucky if I had $20 by the end of the pay period."