I had an internship and they hired me afterwards. Honestly sounded like a good way to break in. I also learned a whole new language for the internship and wanted to continue using it instead of any of the languages taught in school. Not sure if the company would be considered good or bad. I ended up being solo for a long time but also building three applications ground up. I felt like I was improving a lot, especially on projects they gave me lots of leeway on because they were low priority (they just wanted features, no emergency bug tickets, etc). But no peers for most of my work and all the software was privately made and privately licensed/sold. I also had difficulties leaving because I'm an idiot. With no backup me leaving basically meant they would be fucked, and they were my only reference. I was fine taking that salary because I had zero experience (no job. Ever. Not even volunteering. My mother wouldn't let me because of snobbiness), however once I was more valuable to this company and they even praised me for it in the assessments -- they gave out 2% raises. Later my bonuses decreased as my hours and responsibilities increased, too. I asked to be taken off the stressful project, thinking I could salvage this, and they hired a replacement for me to train 3 months later. I got the high leeway project again for 6 months and my job satisfaction was phenomenal by comparison so i stayed. However, then my replacement was fired.. So they asked me as a favour to work on the stressful project again and said they would replace me in a month and a half. They didn't. I worked on it for 8 months, I kept asking about it too. Their job posting was also terrible and they roped me in on it at the end and I gained the responsibility of recruiting and vetting (yay for that one actually..). We hired another replacement for me, I trained them too, and left immediately. Actually I regret staying there as long as I did. They gaslit me and I shouldn't have tried to make up for their incompetence. They actually made me a contractor at the end so I was getting paid half of what I originally was. Before I left I asked for a competitive raise and the company owner basically lied about details and tried to tell me what a fuss I was trying to talk about my happiness and what I want once a year.. It was surreal but they agreed to bump my pay in the end. However, I was furious by their treatment and reply (which BTW came after I 'suddenly did not show up' despite bolding and clearly stating I would cease work with them and informing the people I worked with on the last day that I heard nothing back from the owner about a new/extended contract), so I said no. I don't know how to negotiate. I am too humble. Selling oneself or seeing someone sell themselves makes me physically uncomfortable. It is completely unnatural, and sets off my bullshit alarms. Actually I seem to have some PTSD from that job, now, too..