>Yes, but at the root of it is the consumer. Complaining that these trusted sources are not adhering to principles of journalistic integrity while they are desperately trying to survive, thrive and adapt to a completely shifting paradigm where competition is lowering the bar and the same consumers are unwilling to step up and reward journalistic integrity - this is what happens. Essentially we get what we pay for. Absolutely, but the difference is that western media now resembles grocery store gossip magazines more than journalism. > >We can lay blame on the media organizations as much as we care to, but the reality is we’ve reached a point where most people like to be given talking points and sound bites that vindicate their point of view rather than actually try to obtain facts and form their own opinions. The truth is rarely accessibly in the bite-size pieces our society today craves. That's well and good but they're trading on the credibility of yesteryear and selling us clickbait. Many people still trust these outlets but more are rejecting them. Social media accelerates agenda and de-emphasizes truth. > >Trust in the media is at an all time low for no other reason than we allowed it to happen and rewarded the media for going down that path. We’ve created a system that does not reward what we say we want from media, rather rewards the actions that show we want the complete opposite. We are customers. We didn't allow it to happen so much as companies evolved in that direction. The government also repealed fairness and anti propaganda legislation so that has contributed as well. > >If I may inquire, how many people reading this pay any premium for good journalism? I will be the first to sadly admit I do not. How many people take media outlets with disabled comments and archival seriously? > >Obviously this means I am also part of the problem despite making an effort to look at news from all sides - I am just a guilty as most to reinforcing the same system that has destroyed journalistic integrity. You're more moderate than most, at least you're questioning and examining your perspective, your reasons for belief and a willingness to change.