This is what they're talking about. (Edit, sorry. Yeah, that's an anti cancer treatment, nasty side effects too) ALEMTUZUMAB or MabCampath (Sanofi-Aventis) Prescription only medicine. Anti-lymphocyte monoclonal antibody. Concentrate for intravenous infusion, alemtuzumab 30 mg/mL, net price 1-mL vial = £264.11 Indications see notes below Cautions see notes below—for full details consult product literature Contra-indications for full details consult product literature Pregnancy avoid; use effective contraception during and for 6 months after treatment in men or women Breast-feeding avoid breast-feeding during treatment and for at least 4 weeks after administration Side-effects see notes below—for full details (including monitoring and management of side-effects) consult product literature Dose Consult product literature Rituximab causes lysis of B lymphocytes. It is licensed for the treatment of chemotherapy-resistant or relapsed stage III–IV follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and, in combination with other chemotherapy, for previously untreated stage III–IV follicular lymphoma, and for previously untreated or relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (see NICE guidance below). Rituximab is also licensed for maintenance therapy in patients with follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that has responded to induction therapy (see NICE guidance below). It is also licensed for use in combination with other chemotherapy for the treatment of diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (see NICE guidance below). Full resuscitation facilities should be at hand and as with other cytotoxics, treatment should be undertaken under the close supervision of a specialist. See section 10.1.3 for the role of rituximab in rheumatoid arthritis. Rituximab should be used with caution in patients receiving cardiotoxic chemotherapy or with a history of cardiovascular disease because exacerbation of angina, arrhythmia, and heart failure have been reported. Transient hypotension occurs frequently during infusion and antihypertensives may need to be withheld for 12 hours before infusion. Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (which is usually fatal or causes severe disability) has been reported in association with rituximab; patients should be monitored for cognitive, neurological, or psychiatric signs and symptoms. If progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy is suspected, suspend treatment until it has been excluded. Infusion-related side-effects (including cytokine release syndrome) are reported commonly with anti-lymphocyte monoclonal antibodies and occur predominantly during the first infusion; they include fever and chills, nausea and vomiting, allergic reactions (such as rash, pruritus, angioedema, bronchospasm and dyspnoea), flushing and tumour pain. Patients should be given paracetamol and an antihistamine before each dose of anti-lymphocyte monoclonal antibodies to reduce these effects. Premedication with a corticosteroid should also be considered. The infusion may have to be stopped temporarily and the infusion-related effects treated—consult product literature for appropriate management. Evidence of pulmonary infiltration and features of tumour lysis syndrome should be sought if infusion-related effects occur. Fatalities following severe cytokine release syndrome (characterised by severe dyspnoea) and associated with features of tumour lysis syndrome have occurred after infusions of anti-lymphocyte monoclonal antibodies. Patients with a high tumour burden as well as those with pulmonary insufficiency or infiltration are at increased risk and should be monitored very closely (and a slower rate of infusion considered).