"> First off, that isn't today's version of socialism or anything like it. Today's version of socialism is democratic socialism as seen in Scandinavia to great affect. The idea that people have to give up the fruits of their labor to serve the ""greater good""? Just because people vote for it to happen doesn't mean it's not socialism. I can't say I'm a huge fan of the idea that I'll have more of my money taken based on voting patterns of the general public. The reason Scandinavia is doing so well is because of the free market systems they had before they went socialist (didn't work so hot for Venezuela), as well as their culture. There's a reason Denmark made a point to tell Bernie that they're not socialist. It's not sustainable. I'll use a source that is biased the other direction, since you seem to have a pretty hard reaction against anything right leaning. http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/michel-kellygagnon/denmark-not-socialist_b_9011652.html > Secondly, you may not read 4chan or fox but that phrase is being repeated ad nauseam on both sites as a way to push the narrative away from the racist hate that happened. Which means you're doing exactly what they want and becoming their parrot. Again, just because bad people say something, doesn't make it incorrect. Just as an aside, are you aware of the banning that happens in order to stifle dissent in the main subreddits? I'm not talking about the racist shitposters (and I'm definitely not denying that they exist, they do and should be downvoted accordingly), but there have been many instances of people being banned, which causes moderate conservatives (for what it's worth, I'm not a conservative) to avoid those subreddits in general. This has a snowball effect that keeps diversity of thought from existing in those places and makes it seem like everyone is on board with certain ideas. Then, when the larger society behaves differently, people are blindsided and scrambling for answers (usually the culprit will be decided as a mix of ""southerners"", ""morons/uneducated"", and ""bigots""). I've experienced that more than once when I used to push for democratic socialism."