I'm sorry, I didn't realize you served. Congrats on getting your government to help you out with your degree. As for me, I've deleted my comment and am answering with a throwaway because I don't want this to be tied to my persona in any way because of the following. Much like I didn't know shit about you, you don't know shit about me. I was born in a shithole country you've never heard of. My grandparents were collective farmers with barely a primary school education and my parents grew up on those farms and didn't go to college. My father was persecuted by the government and thrown in jail when I was four and stayed there until I was 10 – thankfully my mom and I managed to move to a Western country, where we lived on government subsistence and with no family within 3000km, because they're all (still) living in such shithole countries. We came into money once he got released and I reached high school age and hence the what you qualify as lavish, jealousy-inducing lifestyle, but even then despite the expensive private school (which sends one kid to an ivy every two years), plushy vacations and nice clothes I had to hustle entirely by myself to get into good schools in the US. Nobody in my entire extended family had ever gone on to tertiary education in any country, let alone the most competitive one in the world. Despite ready access, I took on no standardized prep tutors (got a 35 – fuck the people saying high score = expensive tutors), no after school help, no expensive college app packaging. I didn't even use my story as a college essay (in fact, nobody knows, not even my closest friends [they just think I'm some rich kid, much like you]) because I don't think the circumstances I was born with (and, alternatively, was blessed with afterwards) allow me special privileges or empathy in any way. The amount of effort I can put into my life solely depends on me, not my environment. And now that I'm here it could all come crashing down any second because my shithole country could decide to take it all away again. My parents can't even visit me in the US (hence the frequent flyer status you motherfucker) and who knows if I'll be able to finish my expensive program here while on a student visa – hence finance. I also find the American adoration of military service adorable when in so many countries (including mine) it's mandatory and a simple way of life, but I'm not going to argue with you on that because I realize it's a sensitive subject for you lot and I still respect your decision.