> But their strategy is not debt spending to increase demand. They deficit spend. They increase prosperity and thus demand. They do it consistently and repeatedly. Claims that it's effects are unintentional don't hold up. Starve the beast is political cover. What they are doing is pushing profits up for the rich by cutting their taxes. Why has as many answers as there are politicians pursuing these policies, but the deficit spending is fairly obviously designed to make the economy appear to be doing better. The interesting side effect is, that they *are* making the economy do better. > Deficit spending does drive demand short term. But as this debt rises so does the rent seeking cost of that debt. This is not where rent seeking occurs. The net cost of national debt is negative. > Most such debt spending is a complete waste. Only if you don't understand that people having money is a prerequisite for people spending money. > Your tax rate is not determined by how much money the government takes from you. The government gives you more income than it takes from you in taxes. Every bit of cut spending removes income from the population. Since we all work for each other and one person's income becomes another's relatively quickly, it's an appropriate approximation to average that income out over the population and when you do that you quickly see that government taxes and spending have a net positive effect on how much money we have. This is why we can dump so much into defense spending and still have a viable economy and why removing that spending would do more harm than good. Our economic trouble has nothing to do with efficiency and how much work needs to be done, and everything to do with how much money people have to spend. Government taking on more debt thus creating more money and handing it to it's population makes that problem better and thus the economy gains strength. Fixing the core problem that is causing the population to run out of money is a harder task, but piling on the debt in the meantime alleviates the symptoms.