A huge part of the problem is that low income people have been very heavily marketed to by the online and for profit colleges because they were eligible for financial aid (mainly loans) and were seen ONLY as a straw through which to suck money out of the government by these “schools”. Because they were only interested in the money, there was no attempt to qualify students in many of these schools or provide any support to them. When students dropped out their “counselors” would keep signing them up for classes that they didn’t know about or attend. Because a lot of the schools are bullshit schools with either no reputation or a poor one, even those who finished were largely not able to get the high paying jobs they were promised in order to lure them in. This goes for low income students, especially ones whose families have no previous experience with post high school education, across the board, and all of this group is far more likely to default (because they were basically ripped off, got nothing useful from these bogus schools and were often outright defrauded, and do not have the income they were told they would have when agreeing to the loans) but because there is a higher percentage of minorities among this group they are more likely to be defaulters. But our unforgiving student loan system doesn’t differentiate between loans for real eduacation and loans for these rip off “schools” so you are still 100% on the hook regardless. Even if they signed you up for several more semesters’ worth of classes after you “withdrew”. It’s a lot like the mortgage collapse—desperate to keep making money, the lenders targeted increasingly less qualified people who were also naive about the entire system and sold them terrible loans (sometimes talking them out of more reasonable options) and then when the whole thing starts to fail, it’s all “because the government made the banks give mortgages to poor black people”. The institutions suck up the money and leave bewildered poor people holding the bag, now even poorer with nothing to show for the debt they will literally be digging out of forever. The Obama administration FINALLY took some steps to control the predatory for-profit institutions and try to sort out who had been ripped off vs people who had genuinely received any useful education, but of course the new Sec of Education is doing her best to roll all that back. And most of the victims aren’t teens either. They are adults with kids who were trying to do something to better themselves and their lives and got screwed over. Some of these middle aged people will literally be having their Social Security garnished to pay for these loans. It’s disgusting, and even more so to say it’s all affirmative action.