This is why minimum wage has not gone up. Its a fallacy way of thinking. - Your business will be required to do one of 4 things. Raise prices, fire employees, remove pointless expenses, or you take a hit. More than likely you will attempt to do situation 1 because you need all your employees you currently have. If you could work with less employees as a business owner you would of already had done that. The next part is you will find things that are pointless. Why are you paying for a certain type of yeast when you found out you can get the same type from someone else cheaper. Finally you may have to take the hit to yourself. The market will balance itself out. HOWEVER this is the big part people dont understand. The larger companies like to dick people over as much as possible. You think walmart which already uses illegal workers on their farms nad has everything made in china is going to raise prices the exact same amount? Of course not. They will raise prices but nothing like that, and the only people who will be hurt is the companies profit sheets, and the ceo pay. That is nothing that will ruin a company. Furthermore that person who was making around 7 dollars an hour will have a higher income to spend and instead of purchasing crap bread from walmart they will now splurge sometimes and purchase higher end bread from bakeries such as yourself. I think people dont understand that companies will do, and always hve done, everything they can to save money. Walmart will have no choice but to either raise prices or not make as large of a profit as they once made. The company wont fail, the economy will also continue, but the wealth is now going to spread out more. I wish i could make more people understand this, but alas they will believe that you cant raise prices because it will ruin the economy. Whats ruining the economy is actually letting the min wage stay so low. It basically turns most people into indentured servants because they can barely afford to live. Does that make sense?