"> And you get this Medicare ""issue"" from Vox whom you, yourself, say ""Vox does spin things left"". Allowing Medicare Part-D negotiate drug prices has long been my litmus test of swamp politics. It puts the free market and lower drug prices against corporate profits and it is disturbing how many politicians choose the latter. When President Trump brought up the issue I applauded and thought he could be serious about draining the swamp. When he reversed his position it showed me he embodied the swamp. I chose the Vox article when deciding how to present this issue to you because I thought it did a good job explaining how big of a backstab this reversal was to the American people. The articles of this meeting from conservative media ignored the flip-flop and painted more money going to the pharmaceutical companies as a win. I do not agree this is a very gray topic. I think this clearly shows President Trump will choose to help the rich despite claiming to do the opposite. > And Medicare Part-D issue was not dealt at all by Obama in 8 years, am I right? And there you go again thinking you can point to Obama and be proven right. I know you think Obama was terrible. Pointing out that President Trump is better than terrible isn't high praise. > Ok!! Please find me something significant that Trump did that you don't like. All right, another one of my pet issues is global warming. I worked for the National Center for Atmospheric Research for seven years and decided to use the time to research both sides of the issue. There was no comparison. What I found was the scientists had multiple studies using different approaches with solid science and similar conclusions backed by decades of data. The skeptics had cherry-picked data, specious reasoning, misrepresentation of the work of others, and often had direct financial ties to big oil. Today I know of no valid evidence that the planet is not warming or that humans are not responsible. This makes this issue into another litmus test for me. If you seek the truth then you will learn that global warming is a real and a serious threat. If someone claims its a hoax, unsettled science, not human caused, or not much danger then either that person misleading you to push an agenda or is listening to people who are. Citizen Trump called global warming a Chinese hoax several years ago but I was willing to give him a chance to surround himself with people who actually knew the science. Since becoming president he has appointed a climate change denier to head the EPA and much of his cabinet, doubled down on coal, oil, and gas mining and pipelines, pulled out of the Paris Accords, cut funding for climate studies, banned government scientists from speaking about the issue publicly, and rolled back regulations that would require or encourage reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Once again this issue shows me that President Trump is ignoring what the scientists are saying and what is best for our country long term and embracing policies that will make more money for the wealthy."