"You probably have enough math to satisfy a program as an incoming student. However, GMAT will matter a lot. The Ivys and their equivalents are going to have more applicants with perfect gmats and higher math backgrounds than they can take. If you can't distinguish yourself with connections from well published professors who can write good letters for you, then they're probably out of reach. Which means almost surely that you won't get a job at an ivy or equivalent as they are pretty incestuous. Basically, if you go on the market without a top tier publication before you go out, or without a huge endorsement from a big name, your best outcome is to land at a school that is the same level as the one from which you receive your degree. And you had better have at least 1 decent pub or R&R, or a presentation at a top conference with a good pipeline to hope for that. More likely outcome is you have a good job market paper, decent pipeline, maybe a few conference presentations, but no pub or R&R, in which case the most likely outcome for you is a step down from the tier of school you were at. So if you were at a flagship state program, then you will end up in the second tier state programs. The worse your portfolio on the market the farther you fall. So if your goal is a flagship state program, then you need to be aiming as high as absolutely possible. And the chances of getting into those programs are progressively smaller the higher you shoot. The flagship state schools (like UT) and the Ivy/equivalents (like Harvard/Berkley etc.) will get hundreds if not thousands of applicants. Ones with backgrounds in working finance or econ, or worse I had two physics phd holders start in my cohort with me (so you have no chance to compete with that kind of math and programming experience), perfect gmats/gres, and great recommendations. It is very hard, but you can't win if you don't play I suppose. I would wager that the average number of applications to programs sent by applicants is around 50, so why not aim a few of those applications high and see if anything sticks. Computer language proficiency is a good thing to highlight, but won't win you any big awards. By the time you get out of your first year, every student should have proficiency in either Stata/R/Sas and have some python/perl/c# etc, depending on what area of research you go for. So you have a head start, but not for long. Your best shot to improve your chances are good recommendations from professors you know that are research active and big names in their sub-fields and in the finance field as a whole. Next up would be to have an active interest in a research area, and be able to discuss/write about WHY you want to research that area. Don't just think about it, go look up papers that do that sort of research and see what they do and how they do it. So that you will know the limitations of that sort of research. When I interview a prospective student and they say ""I am interested in international finance research"" or any other sort of general field, I know they haven't got a clue what they're interested in. Which puts them behind again."