"It's an interesting opinion piece. There seems to be little evidence that he provides to justify his claim. His key points were: ""While the president promised Guam's governor that tourism would go up ""tenfold"" because of media attention from his Twitter tirades about North Korea, the numbers tell a different tale. The war of words cost Guam's tourism industry $9.5 million last month. It appears vacationers would prefer to avoid possibly atomic attractions."" He has a point, but a lot of North Korea's rhetoric and launching of missiles have little to do with Trump. North Korea tested missiles before and that usually has an affect on neighboring areas a little. That situation, and indeed the entire North Korean can affect the US, and the world economy. That is a wait and see. This is his second point: ""This uncertainty creates costs. Consider the costs generated by demonizing the Muslim community alone. Muslim individuals, institutions, and governments control approximately $11.5 trillion in wealth. They continually consider whether to buy or sell American assets. To put it in terms that this administration might understand – these investors may now balk at buying luxury real estate that they might not be able to visit."" This is all conjecture and I am sure some tourism is down because of what Trump has said. There might be some Muslim's who wont invest in this. So far there seems to have been little actual affect other than change of plans from Tourists. I don't see any long lasting affects though. Remember North Korea is negatively affecting all of Asia at this point. Furthermore Europe's growing anti Muslim sentiment and increasing number of terrorist attacks is going to dissuade some Muslim investors there as well. They might have little option other than the US. Economists have projected decent economic growth. While Trump's rhetoric is not helping, and honestly wish he would stop, I don't believe him talking on twitter is enough for the US to enter a recession. It would take ending NAFTA or some other major economic disaster. The natural disasters will probably have more of a negative affect than Trump. There are many factors that play in the US economy in general. The president can play a big part, but it would take a lot for his actions to enter a recession."