"Um.. Read what I said more closely. I said it wasn't perfect for the long run. But obstructing and causing it to fail is very different from ""fixing"" it. Does he want to fix it? Based on his actions, it doesn't seem like it. Literally the only thing keeping me alive right now is the fact that insurance companies can't exclude you or charge higher due to pre existing conditions. The ONLY way that works is if everyone has insurance. High risk pools are not an option. These supposed republican traitors understand that literally killing off God knows how many Americans just do Trump can say he ""won"" is ridiculous. I'm not a huge fan of the ACA either. I want socialized medicine for all. Why burden businesses to pay for insurance? You want business growth and to foster entrepreneurial growth? Reduce the risk of literally dying from cancer by offering socialized medicine. I am very lucky to be in a situation where I can work for a startup and not have to worry about my Healthcare (for now). Now to answer your questions.. Is he for a national health care system? I don't know. It's impossible to know exactly what trump wants. He is purposely elusive and only comes out to bash things when it makes him look good. You never know exactly where he stands so he can always spin the table and said ""OH I never said that"". If he had legislation he wanted to push forward, why doesn't he work with congress to define it and push t forward? No matter how fucked up congress is there's nothing stopping trump from creating and proposing legislation for discussion. But he hadn't done that. Why? We can speculate all day, but I think at thr core if it he has a psychic imbalance. I think mental illness is the wrong connotation. But his spirit is sick and until he is healed, he will continue to damage the people of America. And the fact that he has such a massive following indicates that there is a spiritual and emotional illness spreading like wildfire through this country. I fear that we will never be a court filled with compassion, civility, and reason. That might not be what the majority wants, and that's fine too. I'm thankful to be very high income and in tech, so I can GTFO when the time is right. Anyway I don't think this post will have changed your mind but maybe it will get some others out there to who are on the fence to reconsider their world view."