">You are starting from false premises built on politically driven economic theories. The reality does not square with anything that you just wrote. I like to see the historical evidence (statistical, not anecdotal) for that. I'll provide a good starting point for you: [list of recessions in the United States](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_recessions_in_the_United_States). A quote ""The National Bureau of Economic Research dates recessions on a monthly basis back to 1854; according to their chronology, from 1854 to 1919, there were 16 cycles. The average recession lasted 22 months, and the average expansion 27. From 1919 to 1945, there were six cycles; recessions lasted an average 18 months and expansions for 35. From 1945 to 2001, and 10 cycles, recessions lasted an average 10 months and expansions an average of 57 months. **This has prompted some economists to declare that the business cycle has become less severe. Factors that may have contributed to this moderation include the creation of a central bank and lender of last resort, like the Federal Reserve System in 1913**, the establishment of deposit insurance in the form of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 1933, increased regulation of the banking sector, the adoption of interventionist Keynesian economics, and the increase in automatic stabilizers in the form of government programs (unemployment insurance, social security, and later Medicare and Medicaid). "" In fact, the US at the time wanted to get away from the destructive boom and bust cycles that were destroying the economy, so went to Europe to find out how come they had significantly less disruptive cycles, and learned that the notion of a central bank was very useful to smooth out cycles. Also read about [The Great Moderation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Moderation). One of the causes is listed as ""Greater central bank independence, in which the Fed balanced money supply more closely with demand"". How do you propose that the money supply in an economy should be *matched* with economic growth and contractions? Letting be independent is a proven recipe for more harm than *trying* to match them. All sourced with ample data. Now you can try and argue that the Fed is not necessary, but then you'll have to explain the vast difference in boom/bust cycles seen in virtually every economy that has adopted an independent central bank that has followed reasonble monetary policy. That means covering hundreds of examples. Good luck. This is not driven by economic theories. This is historical fact. Ignoring it and similar evidence from hundreds of years over dozens of countries and economies is ignorant. >Fiat money and fractional reserve banking guarantee monetary collapse More non-fiat economies crashed than fiat economies. Like pretty much every historical economy up to modern times. The majority of economies that have not crashed are fiat, so it seems you have not actually tried listing all the various economies and counted them. >The idea that economics is hard science is ridiculous. No one claimed that. You're arguing against a strawman and repeating whatever phrases you think go here. >In a smallish closed or partially closed system, formulas and equations can determine probable outcomes, in the infinitely complex economy of the modern world, the very idea that you can predict anything beyond general directions is absurd No one claimed that either. However the entire universe is a pretty complex system, and plenty of long term predictions are probably very accurate. >And the general directions are not understandable without considering the human motivations that drive each of the billions of sentient actors involved. Also irrelevant, since no one is claiming we need that."