The reason they have this massive debt is largely (not entirely) because they have been employing Keynes' policies and spending more than they had for so many years as it is. Austerity is not the solution. However, reckless spending is not the solution either. A lot of people arguing for keynesian policies (not a bad idea in most recessions) don't grasp that investors have a limited amount of money to invest and aren't going to place it in a country that has as bad of a debt problem as you pointed out. So many people keep arguing these struggling countries need to spend more. While that would help expand their economies, it is not feasible. Where do you guys going to think the money is going to come from? If investors don't want to provide then they have to print more money, which creates the risk of hyperinflation. Spending could help a little maybe if it was a realistic thing to do. Right now any Keynesian solutions are a fairy tale. Countries like Greece need to do what they can with the resources available to them instead of spending like a bunch of millionaire playboys on crystal meth. Look at the U.S. We have spent trillions and our GDP is still growing at only slightly more than half the rate it has from 1947-2012. If people expect massive government spending to be a fix to these problems, then we are a clear case that it isn't. I acknowledge we could be a lot worse and possibly still be seeing a contraction without the spending, but it clearly isn't fixing our problems and sooner or later we won't be able to take on more debt to fix it. We need real solutions to generate real growth instead of dicking around like this. Other western countries need to do the same. edit:Also what we are doing right now would not be considered keynesian solutions. Keynes would advocate spending money to fix the problems, not just dumping money into the economy. That is something I would agree with. But since our politicians can't grasp that I don't want them in control of the purse strings anymore.