"First, PLEASE, I asked before and I think it's very important for you to think and answer this question: is there a chance that Susan is a great person as you claim she is, and this whole incident is due some incompetent idiot IT experts working for her? If you answer that question, correctly, you will understand everything about the whole story. >> Susan is no good? >She made a grave mistake. Can't speak to the totality of her career based on this one incident. One mistake? Do you really, really, think that one mistake, one, would lead to the biggest breach in world history? Do you know that the breach actually happened in May, continued until August, and reported in Sept? What about her ""great talent"" as shown in interview? Do you think with that ""talent"", she may have made more than one mistake in regards to security? It was even a mistake to get interviewed if you know you know nothing about security. Look, I know that you really really really want to believe Susan is a good person, but she's far far from this. >>Got her job in a corrupt way? > No public information sources I've seen support such an allegation. I have told you that in all her previous jobs, she was a vice president or ""Senior director of"", going back to HP. See it [here](https://www.boardroominsiders.com/executive-profiles/1006308/Equifax,-Inc./Susan-Mauldin). So, try to just think, without any bias: what are the chances that a Music major will have such a meteoric START and rise in the the corporate world in unrelated areas to her studies? C'mon! You never heard or experienced people getting positions or getting promoted not base on merit? >> her degrees show she was not born interested in security (except for fat pay checks)? > Her degree shows that in her youth she was more interested in music; her career history, on the other hand, demonstrates an interest in security. Alleging that her interest was solely based on pay is pure speculation. Her meteoric rise in the corporate level, which started in HP in Auditing, and not security, is showing her main interest is in fat pay checks and power. C'mon! You never heard or experienced greedy clueless managers that are only about getting paid and destroy anyone on the way to a higher pay? >>people with IT degrees are more a match, suitable and qualified for security jobs, especially when they have specific on-hand experience? > People with specific, recent experience (Susan had 14 years), are more qualified than people with an outdated IT degree. Between two people with identical experience, the IT degree might help tip the scales. Still, her role was administrative, not hands-on, so specific technical skill sets are less important than management skills for this role. Susan has no hands-on experience, talent or knowledge. Security is not a joke. Security is a professional extremely important requirement that cannot be managed or overseen by clowns. >>HR does not care about employees? > Good HR does. .. which is very rare. Advise to you: don't even try to assume that HR is on your side or other employees, until you actually see proof and examples for that. >>real experts have to fight HR and terrible management.. and usually lose because of this whole corrupt setup? > Real security experts are not often also experts in HR and management, I see an unsubstantiated bias and claims against certain people. Are you sure that ""nerds"" like Bill Gates, Elon Mask and others have no chance to be good with HR or ""management""? > so aren't qualified to judge qualifications or actions of taken in those contexts as they are unlikely to have a clear view of the overall situation. Claiming that the HR and management setup is systemically corrupt is a specious claim. Yes, you do have claims.. and probably your claims are shared by some Equifax top managers.. **SUMMARY: do you know that, most likely, Equifax will file for bankruptcy? I am giving it 98% chance. Susan killed that company!** So you need to be more serious about this incident, what are the requirements for this job, and how corporation should handle certain areas and the people who should lead those areas."