"I'm not going to go guilting you about how I haven't had a vacation in 4 years, I've just had a completely different experience that makes me wonder how you've gotten screwed so many times. Right after relocation, I was renting cars because mine hadn't been shipped yet. I show up at the DFW Avis counter, and trade my Camry in for my new ""standard sedan (Camry or Altima)."" Turns out, the Camry and the Altima have VASTLY different trims even though you pay the same for them. When I took the Altima back, I told the nice young lady behind the counter ""if I have to drive another Altima for a week, I'm going to blow my brains out, possibly IN the Altima."" Instant upgrade to the Charger. Ever since, I've never missed with a policy of simply being nice to the agent. Agent: Alright sir, your car is in space G15. Me: I just have to ask, is G15 an Altima? Agent: It's in the Camry/Altima class. Me: But is it an Altima? Because I want to save myself the time and effort of walking to the spot, seeing that it's an Altima, and then walking back here to pay the difference to get something else. Agent: It's an Altima.. *types furiously*.. Ok sir, I put you in D2 at no charge, I think you'll find it's not an Altima. (Another Charger) Same situation landing in Sacramento, ""hey do you guys have a convertible available? It's Cali after all.. I'll pay the difference."" Free convertible upgrade. Now, if you're driving an hour outside of DFW, it sounds like maybe you go to some out of the way places, and when you fly into Podunk Hollow they might only have one convertible in the whole place. But there's no way you book a sports car at DFW and wind up in a Kia. Also, who flies in with 3 kids in tow and needs specifically a Tahoe? I just imagine that guy would probably catch a few more Tahoes if he would reserve something he's comfortable with (like the Santa Fe) and then asking the agent in person once he arrives. The kids look tired and miserable, his wife really doesn't want to ride around in a Santa Fe all week, and hey Mr. Agent, don't you have anything that rides a little better than a Santa Fe? My back is killing me after that flight.."