"> Thank you for the wealth of information! Sure, I hope my opinions are food for thought. > 1) Does that basically translate to ""less tax on poor/wealthy..to promote entrepreneurship? No, your typical entrepreneur is a smart, disgruntled employee who thinks they have a better way to do a job. If you want more entrepreneurs, you should do things to help them succeed in a new company and minimize the risk. Some ways to do this: * Create a government agency that offers programs that help new companies. Guidance and funding are obvious candidates. Advertising for small local business would help too. One of the most important would be getting complementing talent together because a start-up needs the talents of at least four different people to have a good chance of succeeding. * Establish guaranteed health care. A 40-something with a wife and kids may have a great idea but can't risk to leave his family with no health insurance for the two years it would take to get his idea off the ground. * Better enforce anti-trust law. I believe small companies are stifled by big companies because the latter control too much of the market. If you want competitive markets you need to either break-up or handcuff and monitor the big players. * Create a better safety net. It is a lot easier to go on your own if you know at least you won't starve. > 2) Rich using money to grow their own wealth. But wouldn't that mean as a byproduct, jobs will be made? In theory, yes, but I believe in practice the opposite happens. Big companies can make significantly more money hoarding their market share rather than branching into new markets. Here's a true story of my last company with names changed: Company A makes widgets. Company B makes bookkeeping software for tracking widgets and is very successful, controlling a majority of the market. Company A buys Company B at an inflated price. The government allows the sale on the condition that Company A does not use Company B's information on the widget market to gain an unfair advantage. Company A agrees and the buyout takes place. Company A then approaches all of Company B's customers and says, ""Let us look at the data on your bookkeeping software and we will give you a 5% discount."" Most customers agree so Company A now has all the data controlled by Company B but this is not illegal because they got it from Company B's customers, not company B. Company A proceeds to undercut the market because it now knows exactly how much their competitors widgets sell for. Company A now controls a majority of the widget market and their market share continues to grow rapidly. By the way [here is that Bloomberg article I described earlier about repatriation being about buyouts](https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2017-05-08/theory-of-tax-repatriation-is-better-than-the-reality). >> Take home money is used for investment. It isn't. > 3) I don't think I understand this one at all. Will you rephrase it for me? The argument is that we need to tax corporations less so they can invest more. Here's the problem -- investments are not taxed. A corporation's tax is a percentage of their gross income minus their expenses. Investment is an expense. Therefore the more they invest, the lower their tax bill. If you want companies to invest more, raise their tax rate. > 4) I did hear from my professor and the educational videos he had shown us that the capital tax is one of the highest among the other OECD nations. I need to walk back what I said earlier. The US corporate tax rate is one of the highest. Does that mean US corporations pay the most tax? Well, [it's complicated](http://www.npr.org/2017/08/07/541797699/fact-check-does-the-u-s-have-the-highest-corporate-tax-rate-in-the-world). > ..why can't we just close loop-holes instead of choosing to slash capital tax? Note that those go in opposite directions. Closing loopholes would make companies pay more. Slashing capital tax would have them pay less. Perhaps doing both would be revenue neutral. I would be in support of that because I suspect loopholes benefit big companies a lot more than small ones because they have the resources to find and exploit those loopholes. That said, people in power have been talking for 20 years about ""closing the loopholes"". They never do. [CGP Gray has an excellent video explaining why these loopholes are not going anywhere anytime soon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rStL7niR7gs). > 5) I think it's in each company's best interest to further their own agenda, and that agenda usually means bad for the majority. Yes, that's a much better way of saying what I meant. > Thank you in advance for your time. Sure, thanks for thinking, asking questions, and making up your own mind."