"People seem to think that Yelp serves businesses or the public. It doesn't. It serves Yelpers. Yelpers want reviews from other Yelpers – and that's it. If you don't review things frequently on Yelp, they don't care about your opinion. Sorry. Nothing personal, but this website is only interested in reviews from people who use the site frequently. You might be the most upstanding person in the world, and you might post a great review of a business, but this isn't your blog. You're not entitled to have the world see your review here. They only want the opinion of regular Yelpers. If you want to be a part of the Yelp community, keep making reviews, and they'll un-filter your reviews. There are people who say that businesses that pay Yelp get more reviews, but it's not true. The article even states that she was paying $350/month *before* these reviews got filtered out. The article also says a court case against Yelp was thrown out because there was no evidence showing bias. People who claim this are just butt-hurt and want to justify their bias by claiming that Yelp is greedy and unscrupulous. The fact of the matter is this: Yelp has a powerful community. Business owners see Yelp as possibly affecting their business. They want to have control over that, but they can't. In fact, Yelp goes out of their way to prevent that. Many business owners simply aren't mentally capable of grasping how some things work, and when things don't go their way, they get angry and make accusations. This particular woman, who is currently taking 3 hours of ""social media classes per week"" (WTF), thinks “there maybe needs to be some rules on the net that aren’t there now.” No offense lady, but you probably shouldn't be writing internet laws until you're done with your ""internet for dummies"" classes. You might think that this is not a good model for a review website. If so, don't use it. It's not a government institution and you're not obligated to use it. Go find another review site. Better yet, if you think Yelp is so horrible, go make your own review website that allows anyone to review things. I'm sure it will be great and everyone will love it. Whatever you choose, stop trying to ruin Yelp. The people who use it like the way the it is and don't want some butt-hurt non-users fucking it up."