The idea of a stockmarket is multiple people betting on the value of an asset and then getting paid the difference between their bet and the real value of the asset. The goal being to keep the value of the stock as accurate as possible so capital is allocated to companies that will use it most efficiently. The reward for people making these bets is a portion of that capital. What you are suggesting is just a graph of the average happiness. The difficult part of turning this into a market, is being able to assign value to happiness, value that you can gain or lose by choice. Ironically, money is a indicator of happiness. When apple came out with the iPhone, people saw it and decided it would make them happier if they owned it creating demand. Investors noticed that people believed owning an iphone would make them happier so they bid up the price of AAPL stock. People are happier with their iPhones and investors benefitted from this happiness and got cash allowing them to spend money on things to increase their happiness. In order to extract happiness from the stock market a lot of other things come into play. A biotech company curing cancer would be a solution to something that drastically decreases happiness. Increasing alcohol sales might be a result of people trying to offset the sadness in the short term but in the long term it is a depressant and doesn't make you happy. An individual might be happier with an extra $10B but overall 1 million people getting $10k each would increase average happiness much more. But somebody like buffet can invest in companies that can generate way more happiness than just handing out cash. The happiness report is an annual report of happiness. Looking at these results next to the Gini coefficient (income inequality), and industry growth by country might start to give you an idea of what affects happiness. For instance in Africa income inequality could sky rocket while the stock market plummets and happiness could still increase because of public health investments made years ago, causing the infant mortality rate to plummet. If you want to think about this topic I recommend reading the great escape by Angus Deaton.