"> ..from McConnell's POV, that's where the amorphous ""spirit of the system"" was broken. I don't see how. Scalia's nomination happened in a Republican controlled Senate. Bork's nomination happened in a Democrat controlled one. Also twice before, with Haynsworth in 1969 and Carswell in 1970, a Democrat Senate rejected a Republican appointment so Bork was not unprecedented. Since that same time, a Democrat Senate has approved 7 Supreme Court justices appointed by a Republican president. The last time a Republican Senate approved a Democrat appointment? 1895. Even if you're right about McConnell's opinion, then he should have brought the nomination to the floor and insured it failed as that would have been an equal violation of the spirit of the system. He went beyond that. > The topic at hand is healthcare.. Agreed, and a bipartisan healthcare bill is not possible while the Republican party acts without integrity. > As many times as it takes to find someone on the other side to work with to actually accomplish anything. I understand the perspective and embraced it twenty years ago. Today I see this as purposefully bringing a knife to a gunfight. > No GOP senator who failed to Repeal is going to want to talk about health care at all come re-election time.. If it is a hot-button issue, I disagree. They will either blame the Democrats for obstructing real reform or blame Democrats for the compromise Republicans had to make. Think about the ACA. Republicans have made it an incredibly divisive issue despite the fact that the core is a Republican solution and most of the talking-point problems are either illusion on Republican caused. > Deeper trenches just lead to a longer war. Bill Maher has a joke I like: ""The left has moved right and the right has moved into the loony bin."" I think the Democrats generally don't dig in and as a result ended up digging new trenches further to the right of where they were. Republicans now push mantras like ""Government is the problem, not the solution"", ""Freer markets lead to more opportunity"", ""You will get more money by letting the rich keep more of theirs"", and ""Immigrants and the poor are taking your job."" This narrative is toxic and is only emboldened with Democrat willingness to keep communication open. Thanks for your well thought out reply, /u/BigKev47."