">> Check the ""maybe""(s): they are all yours! > Here is where you first used ""maybe"" My one(!) ""maybe"" is with confidence that Trump is trying to reduce drug prices. Your many ""maybe""(s) are about why Trump is not going to reduce drug prices, despite him saying he would and him trying very hard to fix the mess with the expensive ObamaCare. Do you understand the difference between me and you here? >> How ""instability"" will happen because it's tiny bit hotter? > I gave you a link when I said global warming is a serious risk to the country. It gives possible scenarios. LOL!! You just said it! I can't believe it! You just said ""possible scenarios"".. for how global warming may(be) cause ""instability"". **Your ""maybe""(s) together with your ""possibilities"" are to desperately convince yourself (and me) about baseless things you want to believe in.** >> I asked you, again, and again, and again, and again, to give me one ACTION by Trump that you oppose. > Here is your first request for an example: .. Here is the second request to which I responded: .. Neither one asked for an ""action"". Oh c'mon! Are you seriously saying you can't/won't give me actions by Trump you oppose to, because I did not ask for them initially? Really? Or is it because you have no examples? >> He's a liar, so you won't believe anything he said, anything he does or anything I say about him. >No, it only means I won't accept what he says as true. LOL!! I said ""you won't believe anything he said"" and you reply ""No"" and immediately adding ""it only means I won't accept what he says as true."" You are very funny. That's why I enjoy to debate people like you. In your attempt to get our of the mud you dug yourself into, you are getting more and more funny. So, let's cut the crap, as it's simple, just as I said from the beginning: no matter what, even a ""scientific"" person like, facts, logic, proofs, scientific proofs, no matter what, you won't believe Trump. Probably you don't believe Trump that he against Neo Nazis? Don't disappoint me here! I expect you to say, ""no, I don't believe Trump! He's not against neo Nazis"". >> Hillary and the DNC are not liars. So you voted for them.. etc > once again, your defense for President Trump is complaining about the Democrats. Absolutely not! I said again and again that I supported Trump over his stance against immigration, ObamaCare, TPP, NAFTA, insane liberals, anti-patriotic acts by Democrats, etc. Also I support him for his integrity, his fight to make America Great Again, his plans to rebuild the infrastructure, bring jobs again, support veterans, build the defense, against wars, etc. It's beyond me that even if you do not like Trump's agenda, that YOU VOTED FOR DEMOCRATS despite having 2 additional choices, and despite them being so corrupt, cheaters, killers, scandals, no integrity, no plans, etc. How could a person like you, who seek truth, vote for democrats? **The list of ""lies by Trump"" you gave me is mostly not true! They are lies about lies!** For example: > “I wasn't a fan of Iraq. I didn't want to go into Iraq.” (He was for an invasion before he was against it.) I was for the war in Iraq in the beginning too!!! Yes! I was sure, based on what Bush said that Iraq has WMD. Then, as time went on, as no proofs or examples came up, I was against. **The bottom line: I and Trump were against the war in Iraq BEFORE(!) it started. Hillary was for the war. WORST: Hillary is clearly for war with Russia which is very stupid idea, especially because WE HAVE YET TO SEE a single proof how Russia interfering with the USA elections. Got it?** Common sense: Trump won the debate against 13 other Republicans in July 2016, and you are trying to convince me that Russia new he would win and colluded with him between July until the elections November to make him win? Would you seriously believe that?"