> How long will that transition take? I guess it'll be as long as it takes me to become proficient enough to have value to a company. > And why did you get into construction? I like working with my hands and at the time it seemed like a good job with opportunity to gain skills that would help me in the future. It is and was, but at this point in my life, I feel the need to make a change. > You mentioned CC debt as building the trade deficit and that isn't entirely true I don't think that's what I said. I'm just tying up loose ends by replying to unread comments right now. About to get back to learning. If you can find the quote, I can address it. > The deficit is a symptom/outcome of some of which you know, but the decisions businesses make to outsource doesn't just add to that, but builds a skill deficit. Manufacturing is a good example of businesses outsourced and that skill seeing less and less entry level work due to it, which inhibits choice of income. That's correct. > As for wages, a lot of countries have minimum wage laws, but to suggest one or another is disastrous for an entire country ignores a variety of economic factors that lead to a crap economy. I was referring to a $15/hr minimum wage thrust upon our current economy. A dark part of me would actually love to see a parallel universe where it gets implemented and watch the turmoil that happens as a result. But yea, I agree, there are other factors also fucking up our economy. My belief that a minimum wage is bad is something that I've come to believe recently, and it doesn't come lightly. The reason that businesses have gone over seas is because our workers couldn't compete on wages. Those people aren't being forced at gunpoint to work (with the exception of things like diamond mining). They chose to get those jobs because it was preferable to the alternative. So, let's say we never allowed jobs to go overseas and forced them all to stay here with high wages. Now the people in those countries are in a situation that is *worse* than working for low wages. I don't see non-americans as worth more or less than americans as far as inherent human value. Nobody is given a choice where they are born. So, I say, open trade everywhere and eliminate the minimum wage so we can compete. Sorry, I haven't really fleshed this out in my own words until this post (like I said, it's a new way of looking at the world for me). As a non-sequitur, here's something you might find interesting: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eyJIbSgdSE