I actually help companies start up for a living. Here are some big parts you should do. 1 - Post on craigslist for work. Seems pointless but it helps a ton. Youll get potential new clients and it will help. Do one ad every day under something specific. One day maybe dishwashers, next garbage disposal, next drain clogs, next water leaks. You get the point. This will help reach people after a specific thing. Also it will help get your name out. 2 - Post on your local news areas. For example your local papers website will have a section to add your business. Also do a search for local forums around your area and post there. 3 - Create a website. If you are short on cash get a site from a good name provider. Dont use go daddy as they are an evil company ha. Find one local if you can and support your local economy. It might be a few dollars more but it helps everyone out and tell them how you are a new company. They might have friends and family members that can spread word of mouth. Also ask them if they know of any local hosting providers. For your website id say hire someone. It should be under 1500 for everything if its done well. If you are short on cash get wordpress and get a good blog style you like and go from there. 4- Update your blog once a week to start. This will help google see it as a site thats worth something and move you up. After 6 months you can post daily, but dont wait 5 months then post. Oddly enough google will punish you at times for this. Makes no sense but thats how the beast can work. Your posts can be a new weekly deal. Showing a new job you did. Or maybe tricks that people can do themselves. While it seems that would be counter productive to business. When someone sees you as not trying to just sell something, they trust you more. 5 - Submit your site to the major search engines (google it). 6 - Post your company on local business pages. yelp, google, and others you have. Lots of people use this. Also after every job ask them to post a review on yelp and those other sites with a positive review. That might be the biggest helping factor. 7 - If you are in an older town just get a basic add in the yellow pages. Its not hard and very helpful. 8 - Go to your local fair events and do free contests. Like a free hours worth of drainage services. This can help you get a good rep from customers. As your company is going to live and die by word of mouth. Your skills are not going to cost him much of anything except time and it will in the long run give a great rep. 9 - You can try mail flyers which at times can have some success but that depends on if you have an older clientele or not in your area. Same goes for getting in the yellow pages. I personally am against it as most of the time these companies are scams trying to make an extra buck on you. 10 - Call local organizations that might need you. Boy scouts, girl scouts, ymca, and other programs. See if you can place a set of business cards at the counter at these places. This should help. This also goes for local business. Auto shops and other small business tend to help each other when it comes to things like this. Anyways i typed way too much, but there is a great way to help.