"> They deficit spend. They increase prosperity and thus demand. But what I'm saying is that there are more efficient ways of accomplishing this that doesn't involve any debt whatsoever. If the the debt money being spent is coming from your paycheck in the form of an increased cost of living then merely increasing the ratio of wages to capital returns would provide the same benefit without debt. In fact, this means of driving demand is so efficient that if you take it too far it'll drive stagflation when the cost to capital returns exceeds an optimal ratio. >The interesting side effect is, that they are making the economy do better Yes, it certainly does over a limited number of years following the debt incurred. But it is ONLY an economic benefit because that same demand has already been taken from the economy in the form of wage suppression. As a ratio of returns and not absolute values. If those wage returns were too high relative to returns, like in the 1970s in the US, then driving more demand through debt spending would be the opposite of a benefit. It's ONLY a short term benefit because that demand has already been taken from your wages. >The government gives you more income than it takes from you in taxes. This is true in more ways than one, and I'm not absolutely certain in which sense you mean it. In terms of say the earned income tax credit, it's nowhere near enough to cover the losses incurred through wage suppression. In terms of teachers, infrastructure up to a point, etc., these things have a productive return on investment. >Every bit of cut spending removes income from the population. No. Not that the spending cuts being done are anything but harmful and costing the economy. But paying people to count flies on roadkill is not helpful at all. And if it results in a net positive it's because the economy is in a bad state of mismanagement, with wages (as an aggregate ratio of returns) too suppressed for a healthy economy. It's like cutting people and saying it benefits the economy by increasing the sale of band-aids and driving demand for doctors. Of course the band-aids help, but it doesn't mean the policies that makes it a benefit anything but a cost. Once wages, as an aggregate ratio of returns, exceeds an optimal ratio, [like in the 1970s](http://www-tc.pbs.org/prod-media/newshour/photos/2012/12/06/Andrew_Smithers_chart_blog_main_horizontal.JPG), then every new increase in demand results in a new deficit in supply that cannot be met due to constraints on capital returns. I call this a supply constrained economy, as opposed to the demand constrained economy we now live in. In this kind of economic environment there would even be any short term benefits to funding consumption with debt. So basically you have two choices. Make everybody wealthy enough to match supply, while trying not to exceed it to avoid triggering too much inflation and encouraging investment in new productive capacity. Or suppressing wage returns too much relative to total returns inducing excessively low, and potentially negative, inflation. Making almost everybody much poorer than necessary. Then trying to fix the imbalance between supply and demand through debt spending. I would call the second choice a fools choice. But none of this means that funding for teachers, social workers, etc., should go away. These things need their funding, and we should be paying the taxes to fund them. Not pretending that debt spending will let of have our cake and eat it to. It's like a pot luck dinner in which people bring IOUs in place of dishes until people are leaving dinner hungry because there's not enough to go around. >Our economic trouble has nothing to do with efficiency and how much work needs to be done, and everything to do with how much money people have to spend. That is in fact true in our present economic circumstances. But that situation was created by wage suppression relative to total returns in aggregate. But, as the 1970s demonstrated, the opposite can also be true. This realization is what drove the Reagan revolution. Only the Fed policy operates, monetary easing and all, on the assumption that this is driven by the employment rate, or [NAIRU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NAIRU). It's not. It's driven by the aggregate ratio between capital to labor returns. And leads to bad economic conditions differently at both extremes. Which is why they find our present economic situation an enigmatic mystery. The mistake of thinking ""how much money people have to spend,"" i.e., strictly demand side driven economics, is what created the economic problems that lead to Reagan. Only now the power structure takes the opposite extreme. In which supply side driven economics has become an article of faith. This is why the older generation, like myself, say and believe such bat shit crazy things about the economy today. The same older generation now that now drives politics. Because they came of age in the 1970s when what you are saying would have been a phenomenally bad policy. A policy that gave us stagflation that many classical Keynesian's thought impossible before then. They can't believe something that was so bad can now be a good thing. But it in fact is. Because the important thing for prosperity and growth is the optimal balance between supply and demand. Not the argument over whether the economy is supply side driven or demand side driven. Because either of those agendas can push the economy out of balance. Automation will pretty certainly change everything about economics in the coming years. But that is not why we are in the situation we are in at this particular moment."