"For the Google impaired: McDonald's Corp. MCD +0.26% on Friday reported its worst monthly calendar-adjusted global same-store sales since early 2003 as it deals with a meat-supplier scandal in China and continued weakness in the U.S. Global sales fell 2.5% in July, far worse than expected. The steepest drop came in its Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa region, where sales at existing locations slumped 7.3% last month. Analysts expected a 0.5% drop in that region. The bigger problem for the company is continued weakness in the U.S., its largest market in terms of restaurants. For July, McDonald's reported the ninth consecutive month of negative or flat same-store sales growth in the U.S.—its longest stretch without growth in its core market since 2003. The world's biggest restaurant chain and its chief executive of the past two years, Don Thompson, are currently wrestling with significant challenges on multiple fronts. McDonald's has lost sales momentum over the past year in its home market as U.S. consumers defect to fast food rivals such as Burger King Worldwide Inc. BKW +0.15% or fast casual chains like Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. CMG -0.32% Analysts are beginning to wonder how McDonald's will get the chain growing again. ""While we admire McDonald's global footprint, strong brand, and proven business model, without clear comp drivers to act as catalysts, we remain unconvinced of a substantial reacceleration in results,"" Bernstein analyst Sara Senatore said. In its core market, McDonald's is also contending with an intensifying campaign to improve wages and other conditions for fast-food workers. The National Labor Relations Board determined last month that McDonald's could be treated as a joint employer with its franchisees in labor complaints, which could make the company liable for the actions of its franchisees. The decision by the NLRB's general counsel came in response to complaints alleging that McDonald's and its franchisees violated the rights of employees involved in protests seeking higher wages and the right to organize. McDonald's vowed to fight the decision. Also last month, McDonald's suffered a major setback in China, which had been a bright spot for its global growth, when authorities accused a supplier of selling expired meat to McDonald's and other fast-food outlets. The meat, from Shanghai Husi Food Co., a subsidiary of longtime McDonald's supplier OSI Group Inc. of the U.S., had been sold to restaurants in China, Japan and other markets that account for approximately 10% of global systemwide sales. McDonald's cut ties with Shanghai Husi, forcing it to halt sales of burgers and chicken McNuggets at many of its more than 2,000 restaurants in China as it worked to find alternative suppliers. The chain said Monday it hoped within a week to return those items to the menus. McDonald's previously indicated that full-year 2014 global comparable sales were expected to be relatively flat, but now the company is saying the China supplier issue has put its global sales forecast for 2014 at risk. ""Going forward, McDonald's is undertaking recovery strategies to restore customers' trust and confidence"" in those markets, the company said Friday. Investors took the news on Friday with relative calm, with McDonald's shares gaining 24 cents to close at $93.55. Still, the stock—which nearly tripled in value from 2002 through 2011 and was one of the best performers during the recession—has risen just over 5% since Mr. Thompson took over in July 2012, underperforming key indexes and the shares of major rivals. The U.S., home to more than 14,000 of McDonald's 35,000-plus global restaurants, has been particularly challenging for McDonald's, where the company has said it has lost relevance with consumers. U.S. sales declined 3.2% in July, worse than the 2.6% decline analysts expected. Mr. Thompson recently told investors the company first needs to repair the fundamentals, such as staffing restaurants appropriately during peak hours, and noted that the company is working to streamline its menu as previous efforts to roll out numerous menu items complicated kitchen operations and slowed service. ""McDonald's U.S. remains focused on enhancing its customer relevance and appeal through service, value and menu initiatives,"" the company said Friday. McDonald's set up a so-called learning lab last September in Laguna Niguel, Calif., where it is testing customizable burgers. The company also opened a digital office in San Francisco in June where it is developing mobile ordering and payment initiatives and digital marketing strategies. Sales at existing restaurants in Europe rose 0.5%, led by positive performance in France and the U.K., which was partially offset by negative performance in Germany and Russia. —Anna Prior contributed to this article. Write to Julie Jargon at julie.jargon@wsj.com"