"> People generally do not like labor, especially if it is something they do not find fulfilling. I agree.. sort of. Of course people don't enjoy doing work they find unpleasant, but I think the idea that people do not like working as a rule is not as obvious as it seems. After all, that's more of a guess as it has never been tested in any meaningful way; humans throughout history have, for the most part, worked. While I have an easy time agreeing that it's preferable for people to work on things they find fulfilling (or at least not unpleasant) than to work on things they hate, I'm not sold on the concept that people would actually prefer not working at all to working. I think productivity and purpose are critical components to the human experience, and work plays a big role in them - in other words, the idea of not working wouldn't necessarily match the reality of not working if we ever had a chance to properly explore it. On a side note, I think this is something absolutely worth experimenting with - you could run some decent experiments for less than $50m, which is really a small amount to explore such a universally relevant topic. > Wage (chattel) slavery has never, nor will it ever be a positive attribute to any society. This strikes me as a loaded statement - and, on the surface at least, not one I agree with. Please help me understand your thinking here. How exactly do you define wage slavery? If you define it as ""working in order to survive,"" would you consider maintaining a small working farm in order to feed your family, as was done by many throughout history, to be a form of wage slavery? How about hunting and gathering - not paid labor, clearly, but nonetheless difficult work that was done only because it was necessary for the worker to survive? Is working for wages, which you can then exchange to buy food and such, different in kind from working to produce or capture food? Is working to afford enough food and shelter to survive different from working to afford more luxurious food or shelter? I'm not being argumentative - I'm just trying to understand the implications of that statement. :) As far as a reduction in hours worked, that isn't necessarily disastrous. It may be, but it can also be mitigated - for instance, if fewer hours worked yield the same or higher income. This isn't as radical as it sounds; it could, for example, be viewed as value-based pricing of results as opposed to input. That said, in practice I think significant job loss due to technology *would* be handled poorly and thus very messy (at least at first). However, I don't think that the shift in job markets will be as sudden or severe as many claim it will be - I think that's a bit of sensationalist fear-mongering based more on predictions than evidence."