"In no particular order: - Plumbers are not the kind of trade where advertising to end-customers is very effective. People don't generally write down phone numbers and keep track of them on the basis that ""I'll probably need a plumber some day, and I might never have any way to way to learn their phone number unless I write this down right now."" - References through other tradesmen are worth 10x as much as references through end-customers. Get a network of electricians and carpenters and HVAC guys referring to you, and vice-versa. - Especially in the early stages, do whatever it takes to make it right with every customer. A lot of tradesmen offer sloppy low-ball estimates to get the business, and then get stuck explaining why the bill is 3x higher. Nobody is ever going to give you a positive review or referral in that situation. - Forget about your hourly rate and focus on building the business, even if it means losing money on some jobs. Employees get paid by the hour, owners get paid based on satisfied customers. You will make some mistakes in the beginning. Plan to eat them. Eventually, you will make less mistakes, and will learn to price variability into the job. - Don't work with impossible customers, but do whatever it takes to keep lucrative customers happy. A lot of tradesmen get this completely wrong. 20% of your customers will produce 80% of your profits, usually. Do whatever it takes to keep them happy, and avoid the customers who want 80% of your business but who produce 0% profit. - Don't be a dick. Give good customers clear and fair estimates, and tell them where and how you are charging a markup. Don't pick a fight if the guy up the road is charging less, and don't give the customer shit for not knowing how to compare quotes. Show them the meaningful difference in your estimate, explain to them why it's not worth your time to match lowball quotes for junk work, and let them make the decision. - Do every job right. This is something that pays off in the long-run, exponentially. If you can't do it right, don't take it. Make sure that everyone who has ever done business with you comes out happy and satisfied that you were the best option available. - Having the lowest price might get you the most business in the first couple of years, but doing the best work will earn you the most profits and will help build a multi-million-dollar business in the decades to come."