Do you have an adviser/mentor for your thesis? I'd recommend talking to them about your goals and see if they have any insight. They might have a better idea of your credentials/capabilities etc. They will also likely be one of the ones to write a letter of rec, so it would be good to get them on board early. If you're still at the same institution (or area) from your undergrad, then you could probably talk to any of the finance profs you liked as well. They could be helpful as well and would know more about your background. Since you are doing a thesis anyways, I'd recommend trying to get it published. This would be something you would want to hopefully get your mentor involved with. The Association of Business Schools (ABS) journal rankings can give you an idea of where you might want to try to publish. I'd think anything at an ABS 2 (3 would be fantastic, a 4 as a masters student is really unlikely but would open almost any door) would really help your application. Although the timing is unlikely to work out (assuming you are working on the thesis and also applying to phd school this year) because the publication process takes a long time, being able to mention in your application that you were targeting a journal (or being able to provide an update that you received a 'revise and resubmit') might really help with your application. Also, if you end up waiting a year for phd school, you'd also have more time to get your thesis published. I'd think the math/stat background should be pretty solid, even if you don't have all the calc. A ton of your placement post phd will be determined by your phd school, so if possible, shoot high and try attend the best program you are accepted into. Rankings could give you a good idea of program strength. You can also look at the faculty members' cv. Seeing lots of ABS 4 or 4* articles in their research is a good sign that it would be a strong program. I hope this helps. I'm not 100% what you mean by 'flagship' state school. If you are thinking top 20 (maybe Ohio State or comparable) then my advice may not apply as much, but if you are thinking in terms of a solid, reputable state school, then I think this might apply