"I wouldn't go quite that far. It's dreadfully formatted, and not brilliantly written, I'll give you that. I'd guess it's written by someone who believes they they have a flair for storytelling and the dramatic, and writes as they would talk. Assume Amy Hoy is a slightly melodramatic awkward gal soliloquizing at you, and this all seems a little more tolerable. But I find her points somewhat solid. I think she's presenting from a ideological standpoint where safety and security are paramount, and the risk associated with startups is ""too much risk."" But I think the point thats he's making about the poisonous rhetoric associated with ""glorious death"" and ""working for a startup"" being very similar is well thought out and quite an interesting perspective. I go to a school whose idea of ""business"" is ""entrepreneurship."" I left their business program because my career goals simply cannot be sustained by entrepreneurship until a very long while into my career, and I found the ""here's how to have a startup"" focus of the bulk of the courses essentially valueless to me where I am now. Having seen what the author refers to as the ""hagiography"" of successful startups (great word, by-the-by), I cannot help but recount those courses and the ways we were sold on this ideology. Much was made about how much money was made by successful startups. Much was made of the independence, the power, the *glory*, of winning the startup lotto and making it big. The guys that did it young were revered and lauded as the greatest of our generation. No mention was made of the failures. No mention was made of the failure rate. No mention was made of the costs associated with failure. No mention was made of the people who got fucked as these entrepreneurial saints made their fortunes. Further, the ones that got the most attention were the ones who went back and did it a few more times. Anyone clever, who won big and cashed out and quit while ahead was mentioned as a success, but their retirement or cashing out went unmentioned. Some sort of shameful detail, maybe. The guys that won big and went back and tried again were praised for their determination and vigor. If they set themselves back to square one betting on an unsuccessful attempt, that was unmentioned. VCs were praised as the greatest thing that happened to entrepreneurship. We were given no real warnings about ""hey, those contracts can be kinda shady sometimes"" or ""they want a *big* cut, yo."" Instead, they were the grease to our machine. It was a money making machine. A machine of winners. Of the great men and women of our generation. Of everything that is good about western society. And we are letting our generation down if we don't play. Seriously. I had a prof tear a strip off a kid for asking something along the lines of ""but what's wrong with working for a company that already exists and can pay a steady wage?"" The prof got started in on how our generation is listless coasters and just fall into things and accomplish little on our own. He moved into how it's merely riding someone else's coattails and it's not really achieving anything for yourself. The tl;dr of what was a fifteen minute in-class excoriation of a student who asked what I thought was a reasonable question was ""If you're not signing your own paycheques, you are a huge failure and are contributing nothing of note to society or it's progress."" This particular rant pretty much sealed my withdrawal from the business aspect of my school. If my very goals render me a huge failure in my profs' eyes, I'm not interested in what they have to say or in contributing to their employment at the university. But off that somewhat-personal tangent, the culture of ""glory of the startup"" that Amy Hoy somewhat ineloquently complains about in her article certainly exists. In the form she's complaining about. Your rebuttal makes sense too - it's not that VC are or aren't a risk, it's not that people don't have the right and the opportunity to take that risk if they see it as a valid opportunity to make money, it's not like it's fair to expect a VC to fund you without seeing a profit in the long run. But you're rebutting her thesis with something that doesn't actually address it. The culture that she's complaining about exists, in my experience. The culture glosses over so much of what you rebutted her article with, that risks exist and that failures exist and that there are a lot of harsh realities associated with the startup world. The culture does, indeed, glorify all the best parts of startup-dom and creates a toughness challenge that renders ""no, this may not be a good idea"" unfalsifiable because failure are personal while successes are cultural. Successful startups and people who have done very well by them are held up as everything startups are supposed to be and look at how their hard work paid off - and if yours doesn't work, it is entirely that you didn't work hard enough. Someone who has bought in wholesale holds that there are no ""bad"" startups - any startup can be successful, you just need to bust balls working harder if you fail. Startups are akin to gambling. They're not the roulette of ""it's all luck,"" but closer to five card stud - skill plays a lot of a role, but there's still luck involved. Startup culture represents all this as far closer to Texas Hold 'Em, where luck in minimized, where skill and diligence play the greatest role. It assumes that everyone going in already knows all the things you brought up in your rebuttal, without ever actually giving them that information. It keeps pimping ""just work harder"" without really saying ""Hey, guys - check the odds you're playing with **and know when to hold and when to fold**."""