"Absolutely! Superstar employees are a conceived threat to management and managers who know they they are not to the level of those employees and those employees may gain too much power, etc. Pure political games. Also, once you get rid of a superstar employee, you need to hire 10 other people to replace that person.. who will make a big mess.. so you need even more managers/management and also more employees. It's very simple. The only reason superstar employees keep their job is the fear of a big mess if they are let go. Also, NEVER EVER(!) promote those superstar employees, despite the urgent need for their talent to be transferred to others and use their talent in higher up positions. I am a Superstar employee, 20 years in my company, know things and systems that no one else knows and systems I created are responsible to 90% of sales. I am not kidding, I am not making up things and, yes, I can brag. I do the work of at least 10 ""normal"" employees. Despite that, I would have been fired long time ago. I did not and will not.. for next 4 years.. until my planned retirement, when I want to get fired. I am smart to not get fired because I limit the ton and arguments I have with the ""enemies"". I am also very passive-aggressive. I found it much better to let them go their way and watch them and ""help"" them fail. Why do they fail? Because I know they right way, and because I know the right way, they will automatically select another way which is doomed. **Think Dilbert! This comics are actual true and accurate representation of what happens in almost all companies.** Oh, the stories I can tell you! I am 20 years in the company, and many many ""brilliant"" managers came and let go. Lastly, I am well respected in the company, but the ""enemies"" who don't like me make it not so nice at times for me. P/S: an even bigger superstar employee than me, a friend of mine, a different company, was let go because of politics. He told me that his work is now done by 16 new employees and a big mess still going on. I am totally believe him and not surprised at all."