">it certainly wasn't a priority for the government to oversee account-opening operations at the branch level >**Consumer Finance** protection bureau What the hell are they supposed to be doing then? There are already multiple organizations for the institutional level this group was created specifically for consumer level products and they missed one of the most blatant and widespread abuses in recent history. Dodd Frank is like if my kid crashed my car, so I broke his arm to make sure it never happened again. Making sure he can never crash cause he can't even get behind the wheel, but failing to consider the greater consequences. >particularly among those of us who chose to leave big banks for smaller banks, who now have carte blanche to gamble in order to ""compete"" with the big guys. Looks to me like a strategy to discredit smaller banks in the end. Please explain this one to me because I don't understand what you mean at all. You know most of the bulge bracket banks are *against* this rule while many community banks have expressed support? And what are you talking about freedom to ""compete"" against the big guys? What are you even talking about and how is that freedom threatened? Since you brought up Republicans it seems to me like you are a liberal who hears 'Republican repeals regulation' and immediately think you have to be against it. There are a number of reasons this bill should receive bipartisan support: * The guy who sponsored this bill was staunchly against the bail outs of '08 and wanted the banks to just fail. * The compliance costs under Dodd are massive and smaller banks can't afford to pay them, and they shouldn't have to because if they fail to meet compliance they will just go bankrupt and won't bring the economy down with them. * More overhead for compliance = lower deposit rates for clients = can't compete with bulge brackets. On a side note this is a general rule anyways and why I think its stupid to be using a community bank. Ever. * It removes the orderly liquidation authority and leaves big banks to die instead of getting bailed out. Other than the stigma of voting for GOP backed repealing of regulation the only real counter argument seems to be Elizabeth Warren, trickle down, Wall Street, 1%."