">The Copyright Clause of the U.S. Constitution states that Congress may grant exclusive production rights to authors and inventors for a limited time.. in order to promote science and art. Monopoly privilege does not promote science and art, it allows people and companies who would otherwise be forced to innovate to stay competitive to wield the power of the law and state to prevent others from acting freely with their own time and resources. If I figure out how to manufacture the same drug, the same device, the same widget or formula as someone else, and I wish to do so, I cannot because of the monopoly privilege granted by government. >There was never any problem with the concept of patents. The notion that your ideas are sacred and no one may copy them is not some natural human right, it's a constructed paradigm created by government which protects big business. It cannot be ""fixed"", as it is a flawed premise to begin with. You don't own ideas. >There was never any problem with the concept of patents. Pragmatically speaking, the patent and copyright system has failed and has created the problems we see today. Ideologically, it's a flawed premise to begin with. It's time to move on. >The problem lies with government. As long as businesses are allowed to legally bribe politicians, the laws will be altered to favor those businesses. I would agree to this point, but with a different conclusion. The problem *does* lie with government in that a centralized concentration of power will *always* attract the most corrupt. Decentralization (and if I had my druthers, abolishment) of such power is the best way to combat this. This means a strong federal government is a honeypot for the worst humanity has to offer. As long as there are politicians who command armies (both domestic and abroad), business will continue to seek alliance with them, whether for purposes self-preservation, or seeking of special privilege in the way of patents, copyrights, regulatory capture, rent-seeking, cartelization, and all of the other ways government distorts the free market. These are the men who use the law to grant monopoly in the name of preventing monopoly."