Trasy Enterprises Has paved the way into industrial sector and we are one of the leaders in manufacturing and engineering enterprise. We began our trip in the year 1969 in Mumbai with Pranav Trashy as our pilot. We are a private firm overseen by technocrats with a turnover of 0.5 to 2.5 crores. Our primary point is to fulfill the client’s needs and make the machines more effective inviting for speedy profitability. We're at present one of the well-known maker of machines & equipment especially for paper, film & foil converting industry and have concentrated learning in our outlines. Trasy Enterprises offer's you a total selection of items and all are set apart with the accompanying features like high quality, accuracy and high efficiency. These are the scope of items offered: Lamination covering machine, Pilot Coating machine, Label punching machine, Slitting Machine, Infrared Driers, PVC Gluing Machine, Hot Melt Hose. To comprehend it better here are the characteristics of some of our product’s: Hot Melt Coating Machine - was developed by our company in the year 2006. The machine was exhibited in IIASE '07 exhibition at Nehru Center Bombay. The coating machine is fully featured, efficient as well as affordable. It's design caters particularly for use in a flexible packaging industry. Gravure Printing Machine - The control panel of the Gravure Printing Machine is circulated through each printing unit and winding station. In the control board, clone switches are given for all operations, in this manner making the Gravure Printing Machine more easy to use. The administrator, just by an extend of the hand can do any operation. Center Seal Pouch Making Machine : Model CS -3 Trasy Enterprises is one of the main makers of amazing, exactness, and high efficiency Pouch Making Machines in India. The machine has been outlined in such a way, that it gives a variety of Pouches. They can be printed or unprinted, laminates of HD, L.D. multilayer. The segments used to make the pouches are a blend of polyester, B.O.P.P, paper and aluminium foil in roll form. All our product’s are constantly one stage ahead in executing new innovation with an unmistakable arrangement of difficulties in the manufacturing business.