"The big reason why this is hard to wrap your head around via analogy is because we think of ""money"" as printed paper cash. Now, that stuff *is* money, but it's not the only kind of money. In fact, it's not even close to the majority of money in the system. When you charge dinner to a credit-card, your credit-card company sends an electronic ""promise"" to the restaurant, which based on your ""promise"" to re-pay the credit-card company, which is in turn based on your employer's promise to pay you for wages that you earned this past week, and so on.. Similarly, the restaurant pays their landlord and employees and suppliers with checks and electronic-funds funds transfers, which are promises that the restaurant's bank will pay the check-holder's bank and so on. It's not like there are gnomes running around with bags of cash or gold behind the scenes: these ""promises"" are money that is actually being spent and re-spent, usually *without ever getting reconciled as actual cash withdrawals of printed currency.* It's promises all the way down: You can pay off a mortgage without ever once handing anyone a single printed dollar-- it's just checks and bank-transfers from your employers/investments, passed along to the creditor. And that's *real money*, even if it never gets printed. This can be pretty cleanly described mathematically (that's the kind of stuff where econ is pretty genuinely a ""science"", as opposed to the messier market-prediction and public-policy stuff). But it is very hard to make sense of via ""analogy"". That's why I used a fictional world where money doesn't exist. If you set aside your preconceptions, don't try to second-guess or think ahead to the conclusions, but just read through the story as it is written, you will see that there is *no meaningful difference at all* between the apple-certificates, the merchant-cartel-printed loddars, and a personal IOU handwritten from one person to another, except for the credibility of the issuer. Seriously, don't argue, don't ""yeah, but"", don't try to tie this to your paycheck, don't try to think about how this relates to the mortgage collapse, just read through the story as it is written. Because I can't ""prove"" to you (except through pretty hairy mathematical models) that money is debt by explaining it in reverse-- it runs counter to all of your experiences as a participant in the model, in countless ways. *But it is*. Until you internalize that fact, and wrap your head around the fact that money is just IOUs, it will never make sense that money can be just ""gone"". If you sell me a watermelon, and I get hit by a bus carrying it home, the watermelon is gone. ""Yeah, but I still have the money"", you say. But suppose that instead of cash, I had written a promise to come paint your house this weekend. ""Sure,"" you say, ""but that's not the same as money."" *But it is*, in very literal ways. I'm never going to convince you that my promise to paint your house is the same fundamental stuff as US Dollars, differentiated only by the credibility of the issuer.. you're just not going to believe me, and we'll get nowhere arguing analogies. So instead, just read through the story above, without prejudice, and follow the history of that little make-pretend world. Because you'll never make sense of ""where the money went"" until you can internalize the concept of money as promises that can be broken."