no insult, Detroit was to cars what Glasgow was to ships.. it happened all over the west during the last 30 years. Ayrshire is funny though, I live in a small town really a few miles out of Kilmarnock, Glasgow is technically more accessible to me (to the north). Glasgow has been pretty much rebuilt from it's tenements and shipbuilding fame. Still issues, but they are getting there - Detroit will too. In ayrshire (south west) we had a MASSIVE industry of lace and mining once. Some of the best in the world apparently - that all disappeared to the far east during the 50s. during the 80s/90s we had a massive Fullerton plant, beacham Glaxosmithklein and even DEC had production here. Guess what? as those could be automated - that was all offshored too. Further North we had 'Silicon Glen' I believe the pun was intended. IBM had a massive site of many thousand workers, Lenovo took them over and within a few years that was all gone too. The original IBM workers had great benefits.. they originally sold the site and weaned off the staff and then re-leased the site and took all the staff back on via an agency. The only difference being all the benefits of working for IBM were gone. That went on for a few years or so and then Lenovo took over IBMs consumer hardware side. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silicon_glen This being the funnier side of things, InverKip Powerstation, built for Silicon glen and then hardly used: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverkip_power_station To be fair there is still a huge GlaxoSmithKline site at Irvine and we are supposedly getting another 3k workers back ( a bit like the CAT story ) This area will be very grateful for the work, just like your Southern states. The trend I interpreted is that, as soon as things could be automated that was when things went away and when margins started to fall out of electronics, that was just the excuse they needed. In theory a production line that had 100 staff might be doable with just 10 these days - maybe with all the horrific horror stories of abroad, companies are now being able to justify 10 plebs over here? It starts to sound like I'm being slightly anti-globalist here - I've no problem with globalism, but the same thing that helps companies should allow me to buy shit from abroad at the cost I can find rather than being forced to buy region locked or extortionate crap. If it costs you £5 to make a shirt in india, you should be selling it to me for £15, not £35! What you talk of does represent more what happened across Europe rather than just the UK (Poland and the previous eastern bloc being your southern states) Thatcher, for (good or bad) tore the unions in the UK a new one when she was in power (hence the only 1 time the natural gas powered plant was fired up) We have rights in the uk that are now being legislated from Europe but to be honest they hardly seem worth the paper they are written on, the unions - like yours just don't have the smite anymore. On thinking about it - do you think the Earthquake had anything to do with the migration of that CAT site back to the US?