> Sell a product of $4 w/ COGS of $10, corner the market by driving out competition Uber has to drive out the entire automotive industry, buses, trains, bicycles, taxis, other rideshare services, and *legs* in order to drive out competition in the transportation industry. > for a majority in market share, raise the price Uber started raising prices and their market share has been slipping ever since. Why? Because see the above, they can't drive out competition in this market. Lyft and others will always be there to compete directly on price, and then buses, private car ownership, bicycles, and walking are all there if the entire ridesharing industry raises their prices (which will never happen because 1) collusion, and 2) there's always market share incentive for someone to drop prices in a commodity market. > or squeeze supplier's margins by either lowering BOM or delaying terms from 30 to 360 and Uber can't do either of these. Their drivers are already paid the bare minimum necessary to keep them driving and user fares only cover 40% of that cost. Investors subsidize the other 60%. There's no room to drive their costs down. > then voila, big sustainable business. Or rather, a ticking time bomb that's utterly unsustainable. > You must be delusional if you think Amazon did otherwise. They used the above strategy for both their retail and their AWS. Their Lab126 did the exact same thing. Amazon isn't Uber. And that's not what Amazon did either. They lowered costs by investing their *positive* unit economics' margins into building one of the best logistics and supply chain infrastructures of any organization in the history of the world. Uber loses money *on each ride*. You aren't grasping the implications of that. The business model cannot sustain itself because customers aren't willing to spend what it actually costs to deliver the service. You aren't listening to me. > You clearly showed you don't understand either growth equity or competition. This is one of those cases of someone being so ignorant on a topic that they don't even know how ignorant they are.