"> The fact that there is way more educated people than is even remotely necessary. Yes, you got it! I agree with you and this is the bottom of line of the whole story. Once, to finish high school was not an easy accomplishment. To be accepted to college was an accomplishment, to survive the first year was an accomplishment, and not to mention to graduate with a bachelor degree. The few who managed to accomplished that were accomplished men and women who got full benefits of their accomplishments, guaranteed!! Today, also as a former adjunct professor in college, I can tell you you that anyone graduates from high school (""no student left behind""), everyone(!), many barely know how to read, write or even tackle a simple logical question. And same in college: I was told I can't fail my students except in extreme cases. So what do we have here? You said it correct and clearly: >Everybody having a college degree drives the value down for everybody..which is exactly what is happening. Further! It's just an industry to make money, put people into debt, give them almost worthless pieces of papers, force them to also study for a master's degree and reduce the pay for qualified people with degrees. Even Harvard! You would think that for $80,000/year tuition, you get good education. Instead, you are put in a auditorium with 500 other students for lectures. > Things need to be turned on their head. Yes! You got it here too! > I propose that Colleges need to receive their income as a percentage of the first 10-15 years of income from their students. Disagree! I propose to make the requirements for finish high school and college degrees much much higher, as it was in the past. As you said, too many people have [worthless] degrees!! The few who get degree, are accomplished people and will reap the benefits, including their employers. This is also the best formula for people to come out of poverty and low social-economic family background. Right now, if you are smart but from a poor background, oh yes, you get a degree, but it's worthless and won't help you much. But if the requirements are high, and you are smart, you are all set! As for people who fail high school and don't get degrees, they will not be spoiled as today's kids with all their degrees! Someone needs to be a plumber, electrician, trade or a clerk. And these jobs make very good many, much better than bank tellers with a bachelor degree. Finally, there's no way someone who graduate high school today, even a relatively good student, that they could survive high school of the 50s and 60s. They will fail miserably, also for bad attitudes, discipline, and capacity to handle simple requirements."