">Do you work with low-skilled employees? Specifically, do you ever have to manage them? I am going to make the assumption that you do not based on the comments you are making. It is impossible to say ALL of anything is a certain way. I'm not suggesting that at all. I'm going to specifically talk about averages. It seems like you've never been around the average. Yes, I have worked with low-skilled employees. Not any more but I definitely did at times as I was working in high school and working my way through college. Also, I'm not from the upper middle or upper class. It seems like you are now trying to pigeon hole me into a box in order to justify your responses to me and paint me as some guy that just ""doesn't understand how the real world works."" But all of this is irrelevant to the discussion, just ad hominem attacks to tear down my credibility. >If a person refuses to provide more for society, should society fill the gap? There it is. Here is how you truly feel. So you do look down on these people, cause ""statistics"" or whatever you've made up in your head to justify looking down on them (see I can make ad hominem attacks too). I'll refer to my earlier argument as a response to this. ""If you have to assume the worst of people to bolster your argument, then you have a terrible argument."" >You suggest that people who are poor didn't get there because of their own right. Are people who are self-made millionaires (on average) good with finances? Why would that be? If yes, why do you assume those that are successful are so because of their own merit but cannot be blamed for failure? Your words not mine. Nice straw man though. Honestly I recognize all of the things that lead people to success and failure: work ethic, background (race, gender, social class, connections, etc.), good/bad decisions, receiving help or not, luck, etc. There are definitely people that are stuck in bad positions because they were born into it or they have fallen on hard times outside of their control. There are definitely ""successful"" people because they had a lot of help to get there. There are people that deserve being at the bottom because of their lack of work ethic and poor decisions. There are people at the top because they worked their ass off and made the right decisions. > My exterior painter is doing a job there right now. It's a 3 month job. He is painting 1,000 apartments. He took 7 guys with him that he pays around $1,750 a week plus room and board. He had to take 7 guys with him because he can't find workers up in Washington. Can you imagine that? People in Seattle have not developed the skill of exterior painting. That's the reality of your job market. I'm not sure what this has to do with anything. Actually, it's more likely because Seattle is growing and building more buildings than anywhere else because of the recent tech boom. It's most likely that all of the painters are booked up and their is a job shortage for painters, like there a shortage for engineers here. >should society fill the gap? Lastly, congrats on owning your own company, but it makes me sad how you look down on minimum wage workers just because they are at the bottom, seemingly finding whatever justification you can for this position. Those are jobs that are needed and just because someone works them does not mean they are lesser or undeserving, or incapable of making good money and life decisions. Check this article out. [https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/04/14/when-work-isnt-enough-to-keep-you-off-welfare-and-food-stamps/](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/04/14/when-work-isnt-enough-to-keep-you-off-welfare-and-food-stamps/) It discusses how working people at the bottom still have to rely on government assistance to make ends meet. You never answered my minimum wage question, but if you are paying people only minimum wage, I want you to know the tax payers are picking up the rest of the bill that you are unwilling to pay in the form of public assistance programs. Do you think that is fair for the tax payers?"