>The other piece of course is that this person consistently gets raises that meet or beat inflation. That's exactly the idea I am disputing. It's the reason the deficit is such a huge problem. Having a budget deficit at 2,3% of GDP would make sense, if you're expecting your economy to continue growing at a high rate. That's the Keynesian argument, the idea that your debt can keep growing, because your total economic productivity is going to continue growing every year. However, it's not something that I expect to see happening. Why is that? If we look at US annual GDP growth, [we find that the trend is downwards.](http://ablog.typepad.com/keytrendsinglobalisation/2011/02/us-4th-quarter-2010-gdp.html) In the sixties, annual GDP growth was at 4.5 percent. In the 21st century, annual GDP growth is stuck at around 1.5 percent on a yearly basis. This is a global issue. Part of the issue is that population growth rates are going down. US fertility rate is stuck at a record low 1.86 per woman. More importantly however, is that the typical American has seen no increase in his household income in over more than a decade. [For the typical American, the peak was in 1999, the economy has gone downhill since then.](http://blogs.lclark.edu/hart-landsberg/2011/09/05/one-nation-divisible/) If the typical American sees his income decline, it's a very bad idea to increase government spending at the same time. Why this large divide between the elite 1% whose income is growing, and the rest of the public? Part of the issue is that the typical American spends a far larger portion of his income on resources that are limited. Energy, food, these are products that have grown very expensive and are eating up a larger chunk of a typical American's budget. The high wealth and income of the 1% is effectively an unsustainable illusion created by quantitative easing and other bubble-blowing policies. These people own stock, that have surged up despite a weak economy. They own expensive houses, the prices of which can be artificially pushed into the stratosphere. This wealth of our elite is all hypothetical wealth, that evaporates when you try to tax it. If you look at US GDP to base your budget policies on, the impression of sustained economic growth is deceiving you. You end up spending far more than you will ever manage to pay back.