I believe the worst part about Surface is running Windows 8. It's terrible. Horrible! And yes, most of the terrible experience for users is that everything is all different now, for little reason, just like shifting to the continual interface revamp of *every* version of Office since 2007. Change for change's sake? Users are saying no thanks. I know not *all* of it is change for change's sake, and I know about the requirement for a new OS to handle a touch-based interface--I get that. But users have too much interface-change fatigue and are getting tired of paying more and getting less, all the while having to relearn whole systems of interface design that doesn't truly add to their productivity--especially because the next interface change will occur in only 12 - 24 months. The ribbon interface is a wonderful waste of space, just when every device now made has a much smaller vertical resolution than horizontal (widescreen formats). So take up much more vertical space so now the user cannot see what they're working on. Simply brilliant! Or, they could have put the toolbars off to the side where they would be out of the way--maybe that's the next scheduled interface change? Put a touch-based Windows 7 OS on Surface and I believe you'd see an instant jump in sales. Part of my business is fixing/building computers for people. Many of them have simply purchased the latest laptop/computer/whatever they could find in stores and when they attempt to *use* their nifty new speed machine, they face continual frustration with the bizarre, confusing, and seemingly disconnected double-interface with Windows 8. The bugs have them utterly baffled, and using skype is a disaster, since they can no longer figure out how to quickly tell skype to use the in-system microphone and webcam for the 13th time this month when receiving a call (like they used to be able to do--never mind that skype continually forgets these settings, as usual). They also have to create some pointless Microsoft account to use the software/hardware they just purchased. Why? People aren't interested in being a card-carrying member of the Mickey Mouse Club anymore--so why *require* it of them? They generally need to get something productive done, and all this bullshit stands in their way. Three separated versions of email--that aren't connected at all behind the scenes--is a recipe for confusion. Another part of my business is industrial design, and with that, the creation of productive, comfortable interfaces. Here's my secret--good interface design really isn't that difficult--you just need to listen to what the users want. Bam! Now even Microsoft can turn things around.