It is not right to force people to buy any product or service. Period. Do you see how wrong this is? I'd wager that you and I both agree that getting health insurance is a responsible thing to do. Ok, good. But I do not agree that anyone should be forced to buy anything. This is tyranny. Regardless of what is responsible or not, the government, or anyone else for that matter, has no right to force you to buy anything just for the simple fact that you breathe air. Obama signed into law a tax on all living people with the signing of Obamacare. So, because you're alive you are slapped with a tax until the day you die. It's a complete disgrace. This mandate is just one of the terrible things about Obamacare. Imagine what we could be forced to buy next? The federal government forcing us to go to college? Or perhaps the federal government forcing all employers to employ no less than 20 people? Or maybe they want everyone to buy cable. Mandating that anyone buy anything is not right in the least. And there is much more wrong with Obamacare than just the mandate and these other points I made. Forcing insurance companies to cover pre-existing (PE) conditions without being able to charge more is another blow to our liberty and freedom. When the government mandates that insurance companies must cover pre-existing conditions and must do so without charging more, you leave the door open for consumers to abuse this system. Obama effectively gave people the option to get insurance AFTER they get sick without consequence of higher prices. That is, by definition, not insurance. And then, when that person is no longer sick they can hop off their plan. Do you understand the economic effect of this? This is the reason why insurance premiums are skyrocketing. When someone hops on with a PE condition and then hops off during open enrollment, that person is paying $100 for $1,000 worth of medical care. My numbers of fictitious, but the concept remains the same. Imagine if you had a business where customers paid a monthly fee of $50 so that at any time they may withdraw $1,200 when they needed it. Well, the federal government decides to pass a law that says you cannot deny people that don't have a monthly subscription and need immediate financing. And now people can come in and give you $100 and in return you give them $1,000. Your business would be an epic fail except you did two things to combat this new law. 1) You raised your customers' monthly subscriptions from $50 to $75; and 2) You now require that monthly customers pay a $25 deductible before they are allowed to have their $1,200. As a business person, these changes were necessary because you were not allowed to deny walk-in customers that were exchanging their $100 for your $1,000. This is how Obamacare is affecting the insurance market. Insurance companies have to find a way to not lose money. Raising premiums and deductibles for paying customers is the only way to do it. In a perfect world, everyone buys health insurance before they are sick. And despite the fact that we don't live in a perfect world, there were still ways to get health insurance - and I'm talking pre-Obamacare - if you didn't have it before getting sick. You could have gotten a job that offered medical coverage in a group insurance plan. These plans always covered PE conditions. These plans are (still) required to cover PE conditions. I am not a bad person. I'm not greedy, either. I believe in social support system for those that truly need it. Sometimes people are born into bad situations or sometimes people can slip up and hit some bad luck. I am more than fine with helping those people out. But when the government puts their hands too deep into my pockets, it isn't just money they are grabbing. I spend over 40 hours a week at a job. That job is where I (obviously) make my money. Time is money. And so when the government is constantly creating new welfare programs, the government is taking time from my life. This is time that I want to spend with my friends, wife, mother, father, sister, and daughter. Time is limited for everyone and I want my time outside of my 40 hours at work. THAT is my right. That is all of our rights. You know, even the crazy, loony toon, socialist Bernie Sanders says that those people that work 40 hours a week deserve to make a living wage. Well, if companies weren't regulated so much we'd sure as hell have more money in our pockets. Less government regulations means more competition, more availability, more choices, and better prices. Look at the grocery store industry (i don't know the proper industry term). We have Shop Rite, Acme, Whole Foods, Publix, Wegmans, BJ's, Costco, Traders Joe's, Wawa, Sheetz, and so many more. Look at how stocked our supermarket shelves are..all the time. The only shortages that ever happen are when forecasts call for snowstorms and all the ice melt is gone. Other than that, shelves are stocked, food is fresh, and prices are excellent. And you don't have just one brand of sliced bread, or a single brand of peanut butter, or regular butter, or lettuce, or crackers, soup, meats, on and on and on..you have many brands for many products. We have 13 different kinds of milk in our grocery stores. Almond milk, soy milk, whole milk, 1%, 2%, organic milk, organic 1%.. The government didn't do any of this. People did. Smart. hard-working people did this. There is a market of consumers that want that stuff. And people made business to supply the demand. This is how things work. This is why we are the greatest country on this planet in the history of this world. Running water in your home. Central air. Life-saving surgery/drugs and physical therapy. Being able to turn on and off electricity with a switch. Make a pot of coffee right at your kitchen counter top. Read GoT right on your e-reader. Wash and dry your clothes in your own home. Print a document. Cars/motorcycles/segways. Contact lenses. Run on the treadmill. Play music on your bluetooth speaker from your Mac Book Pro. And this list can go on virtually forever. The government did not of this. People did. And if the government can get the hell out of our way, we can continue to improve the quality of life like we have been for hundreds of years now in this country.