I have my own top 10 list, coming straight from the management of Semco. 1 - Values I write a lot on this blog about the importance of values, and I feel there is no exception here. Ricardo fundamentally believes in human equality and the importance of each individual, otherwise there is no way he could commit to such a mission. These values originated from him, but they've now permeated throughout the organization and every individual believes in them. 2 - Consistency This is an extension of values, because when your values are solid and clear, your behaviors and actions will flow from that. There are no contradictory policies that would confuse employees. Everyone is equal and all aspects of the organization from salary, profit sharing, job titles, power, working hours, leadership, and vacations reflect that. 3 - Peer Pressure There is nothing more effective for keeping order than peer pressure. All the rules in the world can’t replace the power of your friends and colleagues holding you accountable. It’s much more meaningful than a top down approach. The pressure is real, it has teeth since peers can come together and fire employees that aren’t doing their job. 4 - Profit Sharing Touchy feely open management is nothing without something real to back it up, and 23% pre-tax profit sharing is as real as it gets. Everyone is motivated because they know they will get rewarded for their hard work, and it also ensures that peer pressure is working well. They also get creative with this, giving employees the option of deferring 25% of their salary until the end of the year, at which time they might get a bonus resulting in a 150% of their original salary depending on the business unit’s performance. 5 - Empowerment Giving people freedom and responsibility without the tools to get things done is a recipe for disaster. All opinions are heard and there is value in the work of every employee.Nobody has an excuse for why they can’t get things done. 6 - Small Business Units Each business unit is small enough so that everyone involved understands everything that is going on and the outcomes.No way people can self organize if a unit is hundreds of people large.The magic number for the maximum effective size for a group is 150 and Semco will not allow a business unit to go beyond that. 7 - Total Transparency Semco goes to great lengths to ensure everyone knows how their financials are, even to the extent of displaying them in an easy to understand cartoon. There are no secrets, and this demonstrates trust and respect. 8 - No Symbols of Inequality There are no offices with huge windows, reserved parking spaces or other symbols that clearly show differences between employees.Everyone plays by the same rules, and everyone feels valued. 9 - Purpose Purpose is the cheapest way to align an organization. When everybody feels their works is valuable, they know why they are doing it and take pride in it, things naturally align themselves. Everyone feels like they are part of something important. 10 - Long Term Thinking/Private Company Can you change corporate culture in a few days, months, even years?Likely not, particularly if it is deeply ingrained. Also, how quickly do managers resort to short term solutions such as layoffs, budget cuts or other forms of control to try and reduce expenses the moment things go badly? Even under deep pressure, the company must stay the course and believe in the value of the open system. You can bend but you can’t break and revert to old school management. With private companies this is probably a lot easier than with public companies that are measured on quarterly performance. full post here: http://orgeffectiveness.ca/post/33166914205/the-most-radical-workplace-in-the-world-and-10-reasons