You know, it's always been a thing that in important pieces of journalism, you start towards the end (that's where the goodies are).. So, the way Forbes.com is, I went ahead and assumed that you were right, so skipped to 2nd page (didn't read 1st page, and probably you're right & it was fluff, so thanks for taking one for the team on that). ..Anyway, here's the key sections from 2nd page: > **Alsin: Can you talk a little about the scope of the problem? ** > [Nick Hanauer] The nation now spends on the order of twice as much on stock buybacks as it does on all R&D. > You can not build the kind of high-growth economy that we deserve, if you're pissing away 4%.. You're basically burning 4% of GDP on stock buybacks, in this giant shell game. This sort of financial merry-go-round benefiting a few owners, a few corporate executives, and Wall Street. > It's among the most corrosive and corrupt practices in an already pretty corrosive and corrupt economy. .. (con't) > You're not going to get there by asking people nicely. The nation now spends on the order of twice as much on stock buybacks as it does on all R&D. > Look, one of the reasons that productivity is low, and business cycles are relatively anemic is that we went from a regime where it was very, very difficult and expensive to take money out of companies to reward shareholders and executives, to a world where it's incredibly easy. > So just by way of anecdote -- when I grew up in my family business, we had this fantastic tax-evasion strategy that my dad employed, which was we invested everything back in the business. > We kept profits to a minimum, because if we had high profits, we would have to pay high taxes. So at every opportunity, we bought another machine or we opened another plant or we hired more people, to try to build long term value through expansion because that was the way you avoided tax. > Dividends were impossibly expensive. Buybacks -- you couldn't do that. Corporate tax rates were very, very high. All of that's gone away, and now you've basically given corporate executives and owners incentives to just suck all the money out of businesses and into their own pockets, and stock buybacks are a really big component of that. > Corporate executives are always complaining about -- well we have to do something with the cash, because there's no place to invest the cash. Well, one of the reasons there's no place to invest the cash is that wages as a percentage of GDP have fallen by so much that workers can't afford to buy anything any more. If instead of doing stock buybacks with that 700 billion dollars, that corporations use that 700 billion dollars to raise wages for workers, those workers would then buy a ton more, which would require capital to go out and expand to meet that demand.