">Every major car company is doing research. There is going to be massive competition. You failed to address the part where I said Tesla *wants* major car companies to compete. That has been the entire point all along, from the very start. And competition would be good for Tesla, because instead of Tesla alone having to spend resources on educating the ignorant public (e.g. you), this way other auto manufacturers would be able to help. And Tesla would have other yardsticks to compare to, and to say ""see, we're better than them."" Tesla welcomes this. Auto companies are behind the times because they've outsourced nearly all of their engineering expertise. They are good at volume production and engines. That's most of what's left of any major auto manufacturer. So take away the engine, and they have nothing. To make a compelling EV, they need to start from scratch, and it takes years to develop a car. This is why competition hasn't come, and why compelling competition isn't coming. The only companies with somewhat compelling offerings are those who started very early - BMW and Nissan - or those who have partnered with Tesla - Mercedes and sort-of-Toyota. Porsche has a chance since they still have engineers, but they're dragging their feet. Everyone else is basically fucked. And not just because of the lack of engineering, but because of the nature of large companies. It takes a lot to right a large ship. Companies will be loathe to release compelling EVs because they will compete against themselves, they will have to advertise the EVs as if they are better than their gas offerings which still make up 99% of their sales. This puts them in a sort of paralysis and they can't do anything about it. *Someone* is going to take bites out of their market share, and it's either going to be them or it's going to be Tesla. > In the real world there is specialization. Some companies design cars, others design batteries. Have you seriously never heard of vertical integration? My previous paragraph talks about the perils of the sort of specialization you're talking about. Because automakers have spun off all their expertise, they are not nimble enough to compete in a changing market. Vertical integration is not the answer to everything, but it is a very good way to make your company nimble and keep costs down if you can do it. That's what Tesla is aiming for. It's not a new concept..and the fact that you've never heard of it ""confirms my view that you don't understand the issues."" > THE ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANIES wouldn't do it. But you think Musk knows more about batteries than the actual battery companies. Tesla has particular expertise about automotive batteries, yes. They do their own battery research and have their own IP and patents (which they've opened) related to it. And they have a partner, Panasonic, who is the leader in batteries. Did you know that? Did you know that Panasonic is partnering in the battery factory? Because it sounds like you didn't, which ""confirms my view that you don't understand the issues."" Panasonic is partnering in their battery factory, and will be responsible for much of the production. And Panasonic has been making quite a tidy profit on their battery manufacturing for several years thanks to Tesla. >the ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANIES declined to spend massive capital for a plant to supply TSLA cars Literally in the same exact call that this article is about, on the same day, Panasonic and Tesla announced that Panasonic is spending massive capital for a plant to supply TSLA cars. Not only have they increased production at their own plant tremendously over the course of the last few years, they will end up spending a billion dollars on the Tesla plant (on the call, Elon said ""Tesla will provide 40-50% of the total cost. **Panasonic about 20-40%**. States 10% and other partners 10,15,20% depending on how vertical they go with the factory"", Panasonic has already committed 200-300 million for the initial buildout per the press release on earnings day, and will be onboard for at least a billion, but Elon thinks they may do more in the end). So no, you really, *really* don't understand it."