"> All food companies are required to have the answers to a set of questions available, via email or website, phone, or standard mail. Those questions are determined by a combination of independent panel and consumer polling. What those questions are may change over time, allowing for a reasonably generous grace period for the companies to prepare. Why should we trust big agro to release accurate information that may be damning to their business? This isn't like government where records have to be kept for FOIA requests. I'd expect them to pursue their own interests above all else, as they have done now by altering the laws in their favor. > I also think we need a series of third party organizations, rather than the USDA Organic system we have. What's acceptable and what isn't is super arguable, and rather than just taking the standard that exists (which IMO is not meaningful), folks can choose which standard they wish to head. Combined with the mandated transparency above, this would lower costs by removing the need for active investigation, and lead to more informed decision making on the part of the consumers. The problem is that the USDA has been underfunded to the point that it's completely incapable of doing the amount of inspections needed. Having multiple sets of competing standards would be confusing to the consumer, and unless the terms labeled have legal weight it ultimately doesn't mean anything. I recall all the products mislabeled as ""organic"" until legal standards were published defining the term. Consumers don't know what they need to be educated about, and rely on reporters and experts to make recommendations and revelations on their behalf. Today these groups are neutered to maximize agricultural profits, and public health is suffering. Agricultural workers are suffering. > Combined with the mandated transparency above, this would lower costs by removing the need for active investigation, and lead to more informed decision making on the part of the consumers. I suggest the following alternatives: * Fund the USDA properly * Allow journalists to report on our food supply chain without legal reprisal * Revoke all laws that restrict the first amendment when it comes to our food. ""Disparaging a food product"" should not be illegal in a free country. Public health should be more important than sales of unhealthful products."