">> Thirteen out of 41 republicans voted against Carswell, and 17 out of 43 for Haysworth. > >And 6 out of 46 Republicans voted against Bork. > So, a lot fewer. And those cross-party votes weren't going to change the result, unlike in your examples. It was the first time in the modern era that a Senate majority had enough votes to block a nomination without any help from the right, and the did so, on purely ideological grounds. I'm glad Bork's not on the court, but it definitely was unprecedented. > >Several of the Republicans I have talked to about this don't realize what the Republicans did. One even wondered why Obama never appointed anyone. > >I guess I think the partisans are going to be fired up about something regardless. Might as well make it about a real topic. Anecdotal evidence is anecdotal. The Republicans I know are all back-slaps and McConnell love for the ""genius"" of the thing. It was a victory they celebrated. Trying to take it back Would *infuriate* them.. but it wouldn't really be about the ""real topic"", it would be about everything that divides us. They're going to get fired up regardless, but that doesn't mean that stoking the flames is without harm. >1) Do you think the Democrats did any doubling down to warrant this campaign? If so, what? Honestly, with hindsight I think passing PPACA without at least some GOP support was a pretty big mistake, and seemed to the right to be a thumb in the eye that they still haven't let go of. Him saying ""we have the votes to do this, so we'll do this"" is how they justified ""we have the state legislatures to neuter this, so we'll neuter this"". If they had somehow, someway, gotten even a tiny bit of Republican buy-in, we'd be having the debate about fixing and not replacinng. I have no idea how that could've been done given the GOP players at the time, but pushing it through anyway has proven to be a pretty big problem in terms of politics, and not as helpful as it should be to citizens because of the political reprisal. > >2) Trump won on balls and showmanship. He lied often but never backed down. He made tons of nebulous promises without giving specifics. He stoked the ""us versus them"" climate and then he won. Doesn't that suggest to you that modern American politics are not about issues or compromise but mostly about fanning flames? Of course that's the way politics are working in this country nowadays.. it's exactly that poisonous climate I'm so opposed to, and want to see diminished. Fighting fire with gasoline isn't going to help."