"I also spend countless hours of my own time studying. It's the only way to continue to move forward in the tech world. I have to disagree with you on this point: ""Given the fact that tech is ever evolving, no one should ever be surprised to find out that there are long hours involved"" That's is the complete opposite of what should happen. Evolving technology should make our lives easier. I see that in my current position which allows me to telecommute whenever I feel like it. Hell I could probably move across the country and maintain my current position. We're pretty much post startup mode at this point though. My last position was for a fortune 100 shipping company. Was required to work 12 hour swing shifts. Required to be on 8 am meetings when I worked 6pm-6am. Why? Because ""fuck you"" that's why (this is the reasoning coming from my manager). Also I find it crazy that so many people have an issue with the use of the word fuck. What are we children? The fucking point of the post is to slap you in the fucking face. I also find it much more entertaining to read then your standard business journal. ""Sadly, her reputation with prospective employers might be influenced by her choice of words in the interest of ""fucking glory."""" When you clear of half a million I don't think you are exactly on the job hunt. Even if she was someone would be stupid to not hire her the second she walked in the door on the track record of creating successful products. Also I personally have had ups and downs trying to escape working for others. I made my employer over 75k last quarter alone. They don't pay me that much a year. From dec-feb of last year I made double my yearly salary online. I've also lost more than I care to mention investing in new ideas. I'm young and stupid. I didn't need to recklessly spend the money the way I did but somethings you learn the hardway. The point is that if you own the product/business you reap the rewards. That also means possible taking a hit for losses, but if you succeed it is going to be well worth it. This idea isn't for everyone. Business/product creators need people who want to work hourly while they earn the big bucks. I'm starting to see that I need to build my own dreams not some investors."