If you really want to break into the industry you need to position yourself and skils in a way that indicates you can make money. Start reading books on behavioral trading, quantitative trading, hone in your programming languages and most importantly learn how ECNs match trades. Learning the background of ECNs is critical, its learning the internal workings how a electronic trading platform and how they match trades, what order the trades are submitted and matched by priority, what level of quotes you can buy or sell on..I mean the list goes on. During my undergrad at XX, I completed a graduate level independent study on ECNs. Taught me (myself) tons of valuable information, right when high freq trading was becoming big money. My professor was awesome and totally pushed me to write more and learn more. A company I followed at the time was a new entrant, called BATS, (better alternative trading systems) based in KC, they have a subsidiary known as TRADEBOT, which is their high freq trading platform which trades in house. (I cant actually comment how they are connected, bc that was not in the scope of my studies) However, I do not agree with high freq trading firms, and its only a matter of time before they become regulated due to Flash Crashes, models gone bad, limit order issues, etc. BUT, there is tons of money in it if you know what you are doing. For example, BATS is an exchange, which means they know ALL the orders for the liquidity they provide for orders, they see the price depth and liquidity of anything that trades on their exchange. TRADEBOT can look at this data, and see who wants to trade what, then they execute on their knowledge of the market and make profitable moves. More or less, think of a dealer at a casino, and you are a player at a black jack table. The exchange is providing the transparency of the deck and you are allowed to place bets off that knowledge. See how its fishy? There is still lots of money in it, and it wont be regulated till it blows up and someone losses a shit load of money. So go for it if its something that drives you. Cheers, Sol.