">That's where you are wrong, kiddo. I've got a minor in economics, and a BBA/MBA in Finance. You are talking to a guy that is both more educated than you on the topic and actually works with low-income people more often than you. One, I don't give a shit, and, two, you have no idea how much education I have or what I've done. But you still can't grasp the concept that statements like this mean nothing, have no bearing on whether your right or not, and is the equivalent of ""I'm older so I'm right."" However, if you were economist, then I'd actually care about your experience. >Liberals outweigh conservatives by a wide margin in academics. It's fairly obvious why when you dive into it. Want research funding? There has to be a problem. Suggesting that the market is sorting out wages already and that there is no need for a minimum wage won't get you paid. You have to make bogus studies like the one you provided, which gets regurgitated in hundreds of forms by similarly desperate professors. Oooh shitting on the academic community because they don't agree with your views. Someone's been drinking the kool-aid of Breitbart and other extreme right-wing new sources. I've heard this argument before. It's the classic, ""I'll come up with anything to justify my views and explain facts I don't like."" Are you into conspiracy theories by the way? Besides, there is no proof of your last claim. But you are right, that academics lean liberal. Funny though how the intelligent people that go through years of schooling, get Ph.D's, and base their ideas and degrees off scientific research lean liberal and not conservative.. And yet conservatives come up with any way they can to explain that inconvenient fact, with zero proof of course. [http://www.epi.org/minimum-wage-statement/](http://www.epi.org/minimum-wage-statement/) I know you don't like academics that disagree with you and love to think that your ""experience"" means you are correct. Here is a letter from over 600 economists, many of which are from top universities, that a for raising the minimum wage. So while you are being smug and all ""I have more experience than you,"" these people, that way surpass any experience you have in this realm, all agree that you are wrong. >Dumb people get elected. Bad decisions get passed. I know. Just look at Texas. >You've read a study done by a guy in another state who has never hired of managed low wage employees telling you all about life. Okie dokie. You've got it! I've ready plenty of studies, but whatever. You are the one that lives in an echo chamber that despises intelligent thought when it disagrees with your beliefs. >Work on those logical fallacies, I don't think you could follow any of the arguments I made anyways, but I don't have the time to retype it all out. Ha. Here you are being a dick, yet I followed everything you said regarding logical fallacies and proved you were wrong. You are just too prideful to admit it. Have a nice night."