"Someone asked this over in /r/darknetmarkets , they were asking how to profit off NV specifically, but here's what I wrote there, I'd be curious what you guys think: > Go back in time about 6 mo, case the medical scene for movers and shakers, write some proposals to help them expand. Traditional banks won't touch financing these guys with a 10ft stick right now, the Fed has told them straight up they will lose FDIC membership if they touch ""drug money"" (cough cough tobacco and alcohol don't count? cough cough). If you don't have a time machine, either come up with a way to be a bank to these guys without going to a Fed lockup, or go finance expansion in the next state which legalizes. It's gonna be a while until these guys get integrated with the regular money system to the point they have stocks and such. Or maybe the Fed freezing them out as they make a fortune will just push forward crypto currency and hasten the collapse of the current money oligarchy, who knows. There was also some comments about shipping from NV to home states, which is probably a bad idea for many reasons. I did however feel I can offer some insight on a legal president for this kind of behavior, but exactly how legal reshipping to avoid direct shipping of a purchase to a state is (I mean, once it's your proper legal property and you're just shipping it to yourself that does seem legal, right?) or if it would get the same blind eye when done with pot are huge unknowns: >I'm sure the Feds will not see a problem with sending drugs to yourself across state lines! Actually funny enough I live in the wine region of CA and there is a whole business here of wine ""storage and shipping"" places. It's up to the states to decide how or if they allow alcohol to be shipped into their state from others, and a bunch of state have very complex rules or just don't allow it. So if you come out here for tourism, drink some wine at a winery, like it, and ask if you can have some shipped home, the answer is about 50/50 to be 'no'. And if you're a average income pleb, that's your answer. If you're some rich dude however, you can say ""ah gotcha, pesky laws.. well here's the address of my storage and shipping place, send the 2 cases there then"", nobody bats an eye, and off the cases go. Guy goes home, calls up the shipping place, and says ""hey pull those cases, my personal property, and ship them to me"" and, somehow, magically, this is now legal. I have no idea who's taking on the liability here, if the shipping place has them sign off ""we will ship wherever you ask, it's not our job to verify the legality of your request"" then I guess it's on the consumer, but if you have an entire business built around circumventing state law it would seem to me that this should be a legal problem. But, wine is a high-end commodity, rich people make their own rules, and if CA turns a blind eye to this practice they get to collect the sales tax as it's sold in CA and shipped to a location in CA, whereas fighting it would hurt their tourism and also send the tax income to the states being shipped to. C.R.E.A.M. baby! Re-reading this now I'm not even sure if there IS a liability here. They bought the property in CA, paid tax in CA, and had it sent to a mailing address in CA. What they do after that with their personal property is not the states business, right? I'd imagine this would be drastically different if shipping for resale. Similarly, I think this all only works if you complete the transaction while physically in the state. So at most this might turn on some weed tourism. The big difference in all of this is that the Fed is fine with alcohol, but not weed, so, while I suspect someone will form such a weed storage and shipping place at some point, I don't really want to be first in line to see how this flys and if it lands you in trouble with the Fed."