">1.) The US mint is a private business. There's your first flaw of any argument about currency before we talk further. Policies are set by the US Congress, and the Mint operates under the auspices of the US Treasury. You don't point out how any of this relates to anything, so I guess no point in going any further. >2.) That small percentage value of the penny ""not being worth your time"" is a huge fallacy. It might not be worth anything to him, but I generally would be intent on getting a few cents back that are due to me. Similarly, using his example of 3 cents adding 2 seconds to the transaction ends up at a rate of $54/hr. That's quite a bit of money to be considered. If we assume that any penny related transaction is equally likely to have 1 - 4 pennies involved, and we take the 2 second figure as accurate, then we come up with $45 per hour. However, there is the time of the cashier and anyone behind you to consider. That 2 seconds is multiplied by everyone, but only you get the pennies. If we figure you have to wait as often as you receive pennies on the whole, then the figure gets slashed, I'm guessing under $10 an hour. Your figure also fails to account for what would happen if the penny were removed from circulation. Most likely outcome would be that transactions where you'd make 1 or 2 pennies would be rounded down and transactions where you'd have gained 3 or 4 pennies would be rounded up. You aren't actually (on the whole) gaining or losing any money at all. >3.) No machines take pennies. Fair enough. Not really the fault of the penny itself, but more so a fault of brash inflation. This isn't about establishing guilt. Pennies are tools and symbols, if they don't serve their purpose, then maybe we should consider removing them. >4.) Supposing the penny does get removed, the axe gets held above the neck of the nickle inevitably. Then the dime, and so on. So? >You'll also see a massive disruption in handling of accounting principles and tax rates due to being forced into /5 rates. All adjustable, yes, but it does cause a whole new mess of issues in it's own right. This can be acknowledged. One might take issue with massive, but a transition would not be free of labor and education costs. >5.) Lincoln's face has nothing to do with this argument. 25 seconds worth of video wasted (that's about 35 pennies worth). Maybe it didn't hit home with you, but the videographer obviously felt he was addressing someone's concern. The psychological impact of change or the not-strictly-scientificattachment to traditions or history would have to be taken into account in a fair evaluation of implementing a big change."