">Are these people making min wage dying en mass? No? Then they are supported. I don't want to sound crude, but there really isn't a profession on earth where you don't have to rough it out for a few years. Life's tough. ""Beat the kid. It builds character. My parents did it to me. Look how well I turned out."" An over-exaggeration, but at a basic level, it is the same idea as what you put above. A certain level of stress creates growth, mentally, and physically. Too much stress actually counters growth. Small periods of high stress are great for teaching coping. Long periods, perhaps to wear the person down/ But when we recklessly let them be applied, rather than trying to guide it to something constructive, we are being irresponsible. >The ""abundance"" of min wage jobs you speak of are either not as abundant as you think relative to the demand or the minimum wage is already too high relative to the demand. Now this is a pure capitalism argument, and fails to hold water for the same reasons capitalism is having issues today: The market is not solely determined by supply and demand. Distance from resources, ability to control resources everyone needs, ability to control resources or market for your competition, environmental disasters, etc. All these control the market. New graduates have little to no power over the market, so companies can easily control how much or little new graduates can make, without fear of losing demand. There will always be new graduates who are gullible enough to take their jobs. AND Capitalism favors those with more capital. (This ties in with the first part). When you have the resource, you can choose which source of any item you need. When you have few resources, you may be stuck getting your needs fulfilled by whatever the nearest, or most available, market is. Your time (another resource) is more free if you have capital, and more tied up in other peoples' businesses if you have less capital. If you have to work two full time jobs to feed yourself and your dependents, your time resources is already invested, and it is much more difficult to invest some of that resource in yourself to improve your position. You may be able to bandy your financial resources to build a buffer, so you can improve yourself. You may not be able to. I think that part is where we disagree. The rest, I agree with you, in more than just part. I'm enjoying this exploration in ideology. Thank you :D"