"To do all of those things we need people in office substantially different than them there now. At first I read that as"" decartesianization"" and was about to ask about your far out philosophy and/or new metalanguage for drafting the new world's blueprints, hah! Yes, I think I mostly agree with your list of good changes. Labor absolutely needs to be upheld. Less emphasis on money systems in general, and ensuring we use it benevolently. I think the r&d we need to be doing is more in line with nature and focused on preserving and using what the world can comfortably produce and maintain--forests have some pretty wild materials science going on already, do we really need to keep thinking in terms of plastics and electronics? Maybe, maybe not. I don't think the real answers are in technology the way we've used it so far. Maybe I am reading it incorrectly. If you're going to talk about arduino saving the world I guess I'd like to have that convo, but darpa and mit kinda freak me out with how amoral they seem sometimes. Those changes and revivals you suggest require us thinking more from the heart, being fiercely compassionate and willing to risk much personally if they are to last or be meaningful. Who can do such a thing these days? Where do you suppose these things begin? I have encountered the phrase you hyperlink before. It really struck me! I thought back to moments earlier in my life when I made a decision based on the thought of that million dollar inevitability. But to still cling to that in this day and age requires a courageous ignorance anymore. I almost admire the people who are still able to believe in it, I admire the power of their faith. Dick cheney is a hero for america whether america likes it or not because he does so much to keep the momentum of the machine going--if the reality of the world without those systems is too scary then dick cheney is a hero for that person, for that person's tacit participation in it or fear of figuring out what that means for them. It removes the experiencing of huge parts of life. Compounded with the quality of food, water, air required to keep everyone in an air conditioned office of amoral consumption industries, I think the back being sore from digging and herding is worth more than carpal tunnel syndrome and fucked feet/legs from the desk. And remember to roll a tennis ball under your feet for a few mins every day to stretch your fascia! It tickles! Thank you very much."