"It's really easy to shit on an industry sector that is having challenges without recognizing the opportunities. Remember a couple years ago when everyone said that fast casual was destroying fast food, and that firms like McDonald's were in the shitter and wouldn't be able to compete? Look how much of a return Burger King provided, and while McDonald's isn't out of the weeds yet they've been doing better. QSR are getting hammered on both sides by fast casual / fast food (terms that are becoming increasingly less meaningful as fast food restaurants improve quality and experience and converge towards fast casual) and restaurants. Competition is putting downward pressure on pricing given that consumers recognize that QSR's offer an inferior service compared to good local or chain restaurants - why go to an Applebees when you can go to your local Gastropub or something? Look at menu prices. Going on Applebee's website, they're selling burgers for $12-15. Since this includes fries, that's pretty much their ARPM. Add tip and tax and you're talking $20 or more for a meal. You can get a burrito at Chipotle for $10, or go to a local restaurant and get a burger for probably a similar price with a more personalized experience and feel. Applebees feels it needs to cut down on pricing because they think they are a restaurant and compete with other restaurants, and that if they have better prices than other restaurants they will succeed. Perhaps that's true. In my opinion it's missing the point entirely. Pricing is an issue, but it's price *in relation to value*, not in its own right. McDonald's has a great strategy - try to maintain prices while increasing perceived value of service. A correct approach is two-pronged. McDonald's started offering more ""crafted"" sandwiches, and invested heavily in McCafe. They spent enormous amounts of money on revamping their restaurants to update them for the times. Prices went up a little, but the perceived value for those went up much more. McDonald's isn't simply a fast food burger joint anymore. They're a cafe, and a restaurant offering sandwiches that could be classified as fast casual. They've changed the value proposition while maintaining prices. What has Applebee's done to improve the restaurant experience? They've certainly attempted to tackle pricing with menu items like 2 for $20, and probably reducing SKU (though just speculating). But what's different about the restaurants themselves? When customers go in, do they feel like they did when they went to an Applebees five years ago? That's where their mistake lies. They need to shed underperforming restaurants as they just announced, but they also need to double down and heavily invest in revamping their restaurant experience and image. Adding ipads isn't part of this strategy. iPads are a great way for them to increase labor leverage by reducing headcount, but does it add to the customer experience? Based on my last visit to an Applebees the iPad was clunky to use and the server came over just as often as before, the only difference being that he'd take our order then put the order into the iPad himself. Lol, what's the point of that? And given the IQ level of people going into Applebee's, and how stupid so many people are that go into restaurants, how the hell they thought people could operate these things is beyond me. I don't know what their turnaround plan is, but they're definitely salveageable. They can be where McDonald's is today in a couple years if they wanted to. They need to stop trying to compete with restaurants, reduce SKU if possible, reinvest in reinventing their restaurant experience and feel, and improve their image. What do people want when they go to an Applebees? Something that is cheaper, yes, but also something that's a known quantity, a good experience and value for price. Also, sell more booze."