"> You're saying I can substitute my 2-week for dailies and wear the dailies for a month? I've been doing exactly this for .. almost 10 years now. (I recommend you only wear them for 2-3 weeks.) > Is there any reputable source that can confirm that dailies are built exactly the same as monthly contacts? When I first got contacts and was trying to find a make or brand that was comfortable I did some research. They're all made out of pretty much the exact same kind of super sparse material. At the time I did my research, there were only four different classes of materials used, and even amongst them they were all very very similar. And in all cases, contact lenses are 94% water. If something is made out of 94% water, it almost pretty much doesn't matter what they're made out of. And you also must remember, doesn't matter if they are 1-day or 2-week lenses, they have to do the exact same thing to light. They might be a bit thinner or a bit thicker in total, but in the end, physics governs their shape and comfort governs their size. And it's not the plastic of the ""lens"" that is actually providing the correction, it's the refractive index of water being held in a certain shape by the matrix of the plastic. The plastic simply ""retains the water in it's matrix and prevents evaporation"". IMPO, it would be nearly physically impossible to make 1-day lenses that could not be used as 2-week lenses. You can be damn sure the lens makers have been trying hard to do this. BUT, because they are ""medical devices"", it's super easy to take a single nearly identical product, make two different named brands, and get regulatory approval for A for 1-day use, and get regulatory approval for B for 2-week use. (They have to do studies and things to prove they are safe to use.. that costs money, but it also gives them a forum for ""official differentiation"".) Why haven't you heard of it? Not sure. Maybe not a critical mass of people in society that use contacts that can create a self propogating word of mouth information wave. Most people I know can't tolerate them, or find it too hard to put them in. (I originally had problems putting them in, then found a much better method of doing it. I've gotta put that on youtube someday.) And a lot of people simply get the laser surgery. ps: Ask more questions about why ""prescriptions"" for pieces of glass you put on your nose ""expire"", but your glasses themselves don't have a ""throw out by"" date nor do they ""wear out"" in 2 eyars, also then compare it to the racks of reading glasses on sale at book stores and pharmacies that don't ""require a prescription"", and how there exist charitable associations that take your donated ""old glasses"" and ship them to Africa in bulk for use by people who've never had an optometrist appointment in their life. Also ask yourself about how when Benjamin Franklin invented ""shaped pieces of glass for the nose"", he and millions of others didn't have something nasty befall them by wearing pieces of glass on their nose that wasn't ""prescribed by a doctor"". Finally note that Optometrists appointments between the ages of 20 and 60 are not covered **at all** by Canadian medicare."