>The correct solution is to.. I dont think there is a correct solution. However, Id like to see major reform with financial aid recipient selection. Right now the programs pretty effectively select the **worst** students. it should be treated as an investment instead. If the goal is to produce productive members of society, they should aim to produce productive members of society. Require an essay on long term goals, career path, etc. Look at past performance strongly (some, but not too much emphasis on HS grades, more on outside interests/activities, etc) and, most importantly, how that past performance will serve them in the field they are trying to get into. Obviously put extra subsidies on things like education. Somebody who may be incapable of graduating with an accounting degree could still get an education degree with close to a 4.0. If we turn too many dummies away from education, we wont have enough teachers. Have a 30 minute interview with all of the finalists to determine their chances of having a positive return on society (through taxes paid over their lives, value added to the community, etc) and decide from there. Make sure to focus on people with a passion for their industry. Parental income should have almost no impact except for the ultra rich whose parents bring home an income of half a mil or something like that. Edit: I forgot to make this post relevant to the OP. The schools that people are applying to should be a major factor. Dont waste money sending people to schools that are a bad match (for profit schools, schools without a strong program in their intended degree). Also, put a lot of negative emphasis on things like art majors. There is no reason for the gov't to send some idiot to art school if they arent an absolute star. I go to a lib art school and I dont know a single art or theater major that has found more success through attending a 4 year program than they could have just using those 4 years to improve themselves and to hunt down their (pipe)dream job.