"So I see that you replied again despite ""I am done with you!"". Thanks. We will resolve this debate one day. > When you say something is ""maybe"" it is factual but when I say something is ""maybe"" it's fiction. I had assumed something else. You really try very hard to not understand simple things.. and it seems that you succeed in that. Again: my ""maybe"" is about how Trump will reduce drug prices as he said and says he would. Your ""maybe""(s) are about how Trump does not want and will not reduce drug prices despite him saying he would. So you have a ""maybe"" facts that Trump will not reduce drug prices, while I have a maybe on how he would do it. Any additional questions, objections, or ""misunderstanding"" on your side in regards to this subject? > I did give you a ""possibility"" which is a ""maybe"" so that means I am wrong and global warming is no risk at all. Yes, what you say is starting to make sense. If there are clear proofs that Global Warming (very slight rise in temperature) is or will cause ""instability"" or ""expenses"", then I can't argue back. So all you can come up with are ""possibilities"" and more ""maybe""(s) to tell us about ""instabilities"" and ""expenses"". And you think this will convince anyone, except members of the Church of Climatology? For God sake, I even asks for specifics and you did not (and cannot) name any! Will we have wars? Will we have diseases and plagues? Will we have hunger? Of course not! Wars will not start because it's slightly more hot. Disease will not spread because it's a bit more hot. Hunger will not occur because warmer weather and more rain is just even more food. What on earth are you talking about? What are the terrible things that will happen if it's a bit hotter? Are you going to be Al Gore, again, who in his An Inconvenient Truth truth movie in 2006 predicted there will be no more glaciers and other catastrophes? Well, An Inconvenient Truth the Sequel will come out and, sorry, we have glaciers and nothing(!) from the first movie became true. Nothing!! I loved how he said in the first movie ""Stronger storms will kill and destroy"". The last few years had less storms than ever. >> How could a person like you, who seek truth, vote for democrats? > It can only be because I have serious mental health problems. There is no other explanation. Yes, I believe you. Blind belief in a religion (far left Liberalism and/or Climatology) make any person blind to truth, logic, facts and even moderate views. >> ..you are trying to convince me that Russia knew he [Trump] would win [the GOP debate against 13 others] and colluded with him between July until the elections November to make him win? > That is totally it! I am so impressed that even though I never mentioned Russia at all you were able to see through my facade an pinpoint my actual goal in this discussion. Yes, you did not mention ""Russians!"" but, you see? I easily figure out people like you. You actually also believe that ""Russians!"" are responsible for Trump in addition to all the terrible things you believe about Trump. But, the DNC and Hillary, oh no, they are fine (despite Hillary selling and getting commision for selling 20% of USA Uranium to Russia, making $500,000 for a speech to Russian bankers, etc). **So, I will not stop and demand, if you can, to tell me about one ACTION by Trump you oppose to.** **Also, tell me why I it would be better if voted Hillary/DNC? What would they do better for us that Trump does not do?**"