Assisted living can give seniors a new lease of life; it can be the best place for them. There are many benefits offered by these assisted living facilities: Safety – it provides a safe and comfortable environment for elders. Certain installations like bars to grab onto while in the shower or ramps and panic call buttons can go a long way in reducing falls and accidents. As safe as we may try to be, accidents do happen. There is always a 24-hour emergency alert system so if residents have emergencies in their own apartment or room, they can summon immediate help. These facilities also hire trained professionals who work round the clock to attend to these emergencies. Meals – there are many elders who don’t enjoy eating alone. Assisted living community offers freshly prepared meals. The main pull, however, are the communal meals. People tend to eat better when they have company. Transportation – most centers provide group transportation for shopping, community events, and clinic appointments. This gives elders the freedom to go where they want to, with no restrictions what so ever. Less worry- residents will not have to worry about repair responsibilities. If something is not working, they simply alert the administration and the problem is fixed. Living is a community eliminates the fear of letting in a stranger to fix a bathroom pipe and getting an expensive repair bill. Socialization- this is perhaps the best reason to let elders stay in an assisted living community. Social skills of elders can decline as lifelong friends have health issues or have died. This can cause depression to set in and a reluctance to be socially active. At assisted living communities, ones the residents adjust to the lifestyle, they start enjoying the company of like-minded people. They play cards together, listen to music, exercise, have snacks, go to community events and even invite people over to entertain them. They can even enjoy intellectual stimulation as most communities provide classes, book clubs and art workshops to help them expand their horizon and keep their senses sharp. Summerfield is one such Utah Retirement home, where residents get assistant as per their requirement and still enjoy their independence.