"I was a school board member and district negotiator for the teacher contract. I came off the board in the last couple years. In this case, it doesn't seem like tenure is the issue. This is a seniority issue. Teacher unions, like most unions are strict seniority shops. That is basically the only thing that matters. Tenured teachers can be let go without cause essentially only for budget reasons. Districts/schools will identify which grade level (for elementary) or what program/subject the reduction in staffing will occur. The lowest senior person is let go first regardless of skill or past performance. Interestingly, if a teacher is certified to teach in more than 1 subject area, this can also cause chaos. If that same teacher is the one who is reduced from a given department and they have higher seniority than the department where they also have certification, they will bump that other teacher thus taking their job. Let's say you have a teacher who is certified in science and math in the high school setting. They are number 90 out of 200 on the seniority list. This teacher may have been teaching science for 10 years, but the other teachers in that department are all higher on the seniority list. The lowest senior teacher in the math department is number 100 out of 200. If the district identifies that a reduction of 1 science teacher is necessary, that teacher gets to bump the math teacher out of the job (thus getting laid off) so that they can fill the math slot even though they haven't taught math in over 10 years. While not in all cases, often the teachers union negotiators set the stage for these type of layoffs. Usually districts have only so many resources to go around. Their funding is set for them by the state and any local operating levy needs to be voted into place - which can be difficult. Also recognize that the teachers at the table in the negotiating session are the more senior teachers in the district (since they have been around longer) and are much less likely to lose their jobs due to staff reductions. If the teachers union negotiates a raise that is higher than the district can support with the same number of teachers, the number of teachers must be reduced. If you think the negotiators are there for all the teachers you are wrong. One of the teachers I negotiated with once said the following, ""We would rather a higher compensation package at the expense of teacher reductions."" The system is designed to defend teacher compensation and provide job security as the first priority..not to provide the best education for our kids. As with this teacher, they are losing a great asset because an outdated and terrible system was being upheld."