It was a tough call. Here's what I think happened.. They needed to use that 2.5 Ghz spectrum for something or risk losing it (FCC mandates on the purchase of that spectrum). LTE was nowhere near ready for deployment, so they had to go with WiMax. It was a good technology, ready to go at the right time, and far cheaper to deploy than LTE but the spectrum wasn't ideal for all environments. They always planned on switching from WiMax to LTE at some point. Unfortunately, the infighting with Clearwire delayed the rollout. WiMax didn't come to market soon enough and not enough people bought into it. Sprint saw this outcome as a possibility which is why the spun off their WiMax assets into Clearwire instead of proceeding with their original Xohm service. They wanted to insulate Sprint which also meant that Clearwire could become a toxic asset. Clearwire probably wasn't very happy with that part of the plan. Cue infighting and rollout delay. Since WiMax launched over a year late and the competition jumped forward, the WiMax rollout was cut short. Verizon pushed up their LTE rollout far earlier than planned (which caused constant Verizon data network outages last year). AT&T secured dominance with the iPhone and their GSM network allowed them to have higher data speeds, so they weren't worried about speeding up their LTE rollout. T-mo's parent company wanted out of the US market but still had high speed GSM and low prices. Sprint had to move forward with LTE or eat everyone else's dust. That's why you never got it. To top that off, they had to reband their 800 mhz spectrum, which meant killing the ability for them to use it for a few years. They also needed to completely rebuild their public image (which was shit thanks to Hesse's predecessor, Gary Forsee and his crew.. all of which got shit-canned when Hesse took charge). They also had to deal with a few somewhat bad calls like the Nextel purchase (orchestrated by Forsee and his crew). The good news is that they snagged that 800 mhz spectrum from the Nextel deal which was fairly important. Here's the good news. Sprint's network overhaul is going to be awesome. The 2.5 Ghz spectrum is excellent for data speeds and high traffic. Densely populated areas will see some AMAZING speeds. Where the 2.5 Ghz spectrum falls off, the 1900 mhz will pick up. Where 1900 mhz falls off, the 800 mhz will pick up. Everything will deliver a nice, smooth, and fast experience. You'll start enjoying these improvements within 6 months. I'm pretty hopeful that Softbank will bring back removable SIMs and worldphones for interop between the US and Japanese networks.