"> Couple things, I will admit I was wrong about the total graduates at each of those programs; however, numbers taper out the lower the program is down to about 250-300 a class. Also, cut each of those numbers down to about 1/2 - 1/3 and you get the group that's actually focused on finance. Many MBAs do consulting, marketing, product development, etc nowadays. Agreed, you also have to remember many of those MBA's are the ones that move on to get CFA charterholder as an emphasis on quantitative. > Also I'm a bit offended by you saying I don't understand the CFA. Couldn't be more mistaken boss, I'm siting for L3 in June like you. Then you should clearly understand where L2 and L3 diverge from the ""memorize and regurgitate"" that you labelled it as. > The requirement is only 2 years in an ""investment decision"" role, this also means A LOT of back office risk guys qualify. That's a pretty fungible qualification, you don't have to be a PM to qualify. I have a buddy who qualified having done 2 years in fund accounting, not exactly sell-side ER. Um.. It's most certainly [4 years](http://www.cfainstitute.org/mycfa/candidate/membership/Pages/index.aspx) of qualified work exp. > To become a regular member, you must have completed four years (48 months) of qualifying work experience in activities that consist to a majority extent of: > At least 50 percent of your work experience must be: Directly involved in the investment decision-making process Engaged in responsibilities and/or producing a work product that informs or adds value to that process We just had a middle office colleague pass his L3 and get denied his years as a qualifying role. CFAI is moving towards a more strict criteria for qualified roles. > I'm also going to guess you're a trader/brokerage/Cap Markets guy? If you wanna throw titles around I'm in a front office role at a BB, too, and worked at worked on buy-side research at a >$150bn value shop. CFA is definitely more desired in sell-side markets focused as opposed to IBD where an MBA is more useful (more strategy focused). Not throwing titles around. Simply informing you that my perspective (unlike 90% of the people in this subreddit) is from a real world environment. CFA's are more desired and less common than MBA's in the capital markets roles and portfolio mgmt (BB's and the street based HF's). Large part of this is due to the associate rotational programs that most IB's employ for newly grad MBA's. This over saturates the job market for front office with MBA's (as opposed to BS w/ CFA's). Might I also add, at this point you're clearly diverging from the original discrepancy we had.. where I said MBA's are dime a dozen and CFA's are far less common. > The CFA is vital for boning up on quantitative skills an MBA won't cover, I'll absolutely give you that. But a lot of people fall into the trap of assuming a CFA is their ticket to bigger and better things. If you're working in back office risk management, getting a CFA doesn't immediately qualify you to do ER (which is a VERY common pitfall I see). Like an MBA it teaches everyone how to do the same type of analysis, too (another reason the title means less and less). Never argued that it wasn't. Just like any education, it simply gives you the foundation of knowledge to be successful. It doesn't teach you how to think. Neither does a MBA. It teaches you the nitty gritty details but you still have to hold the capacity for outside the box critical thinking as well. I'd disagree in that it teaches you the same analysis as someone else. It may teach the same formulas but I find it as emphasizing teaching what the indicators mean rather than how to use them in your analysis. It leaves it up to you to use the calculations to form your own perspective. PS.. for the most part, MBA's in ER is becoming more and more uncommon. Research roles (especially in the BB) are becoming more and more focused on people with hard science backgrounds (ms econometrics, comp sci, phd in theo phys, mathematics, etc). > Last weekend I had a conversation with a friend of a friend about this very thing! He's sitting for L3 CFA, works back office at a very notable HF, and expects to be moved up (without any indication that he will) to research when he's done. I asked his opinions about things like the European situation, fiscal cliff, and a hard landing in china. Not only was he not familiar these concepts he didn't even know what HFT was. The CFA gives you the tools to analyze the impacts of pension liabilities on EPS, but it still takes a passion about the markets, as well as creative/analytical judgement, to make it to ER. I agree. Just like an MBA though, it's what you make of it. If you don't invest your time in understanding and following the markets, you can graduate with a MBA or a CFA and you still won't be qualified. Just a heads up.. ER is not the holy grail of CFA candidates.. I don't know what mislead you to that perception but ER is actually a dying market and certainly not one that the front office people I know want to move towards. > My only point is an MBA and CFA are very similar in many ways. Yep. Both are certifications of certain skill sets. > Both tend to hold their noses way to high, too. Arrogance is a part of this industry. It's a testosterone fueled, do or die, competitive market. If you can't stand it, then bail out now.. > It's about what you chose to get out of it and too often people care more about the title than the process, which is why they are still stuck in mediocrity after completing the designations. Which is true regardless the MBA or CFA. People get both and are incompetent. The title is a tool to open opportunities and educate you in a specialized manner (with the CFA being even more specialized than MBA's). Once again.. You have fully deviated from your original point of trying to say CFA charterholders are more common and less valuable than MBA's. The bottom line is there are 100,000 total charterholders in the world (according to the CFAI). Fewer than half of which are located in the US. That is 10-20 years worth of MBA target school grads and doesn't take into consideration the number of MBA's that pursued CFA's nor the number of CFA Charter holders that have gone on into academia (a much larger number of CFA's move into academia than target school MBA's).. not to mention the total number of MBA's that have worked their way into roles over the years. I can guarantee there are more MBA's than that in this industry. The BB's alone employ upwards of 1.1 million. To say that less than 5% of those employed at BB's hold a MBA is absurd.. even for back office standards."