"> The same with the fact that just because I probably have had more collegiate studies on economics than you, That's where you are wrong, kiddo. I've got a minor in economics, and a BBA/MBA in Finance. You are talking to a guy that is both more educated than you on the topic and actually works with low-income people more often than you. It's very difficult to argue with people on Reddit, but it is fascinating to see how the positions and arguments of young liberals come together. The article you posted actually reinforces my position. It shows that the majority, as described by the author, of people ""working"" low-income jobs are gaming government assistance programs. They aren't creating a career or looking for work by any standard. Not only do I mention that to tear apart the study, but I actually explain from personal experience how it works and provide actual examples of people who are doing it. This is entirely lost on you. Liberals outweigh conservatives by a wide margin in academics. It's fairly obvious why when you dive into it. Want research funding? There has to be a problem. Suggesting that the market is sorting out wages already and that there is no need for a minimum wage won't get you paid. You have to make bogus studies like the one you provided, which gets regurgitated in hundreds of forms by similarly desperate professors. > > Have you ever considered why the minimum wage came about in the first place? It was to keep businesses in check because they were taking advantage of people and paying them poor wages. This is where things turn unexpectedly entertaining. The minimum wage came about because of populous opinion. It's the same way that tariffs come about. Canadian lumber is too cheap, so we must make it cost more, because American jobs. Boom. Lumber rises 20%. Politicians aren't economists. Dumb people get elected. Bad decisions get passed. They also get reiterated for decades just because. Your position stands on one of compassion, but it lacks much else. I would encourage you to participate in production oriented fields. Do you pay for things that are no complete because the person working on them ""deserves"" it? I highly doubt it. It's a double standard where employees deserve to get paid, but businesses shouldn't if they don't do things right. People ""Deserve"" to be paid what they produce for society. There are no magical studies that will show me differently. It's not compassion to subsidize the poor. It's compassion to work with the poor to develop skills to better their lives. You can't seem to figure out that people in construction magically do not make minimum wage anywhere in Houston. It's fairly obvious. Would you stand in the Texas sun (it was nearly 100 today), work hard, get a job done, only to be paid $70? Hell no. It's not a government that needs to step in to assert that. The market, as I'm sure your economics degree taught you, will demand a higher wage. A dude working at McDonalds doesn't even make minimum wage anymore. I can't even think of people who do. But that doesn't matter. It doesn't matter to you that people who actually work don't make minimum wage. You've read a study done by a guy in another state who has never hired of managed low wage employees telling you all about life. Okie dokie. You've got it! Work on those logical fallacies, I don't think you could follow any of the arguments I made anyways, but I don't have the time to retype it all out."