"> As far as seizing a promotion. I don't understand why someone who is inferior in every aspect except personal favor is automatically the best candidate for a promotion due to backdoor politics. So what you're saying is that I should focus on my soft skills and less on everything else in order to get ahead? Well, that's a cynical definition of what I mean by ""seizing a promotion"", but it's not far off -- you just make it sound dirty. :) In the end we humans are social/pack animals. Nothing is going to change that anytime soon. Plus we live in a market based society: you need to prove why you should be paid more. How do you prove you should be paid more? One way is to seize a promotion by having them believe that the cost of replacing you too high if you walk. Get your hands around their balls and squeeze. Otherwise, how do they really know that you're ""superior in every way"" to others competing for the role. Your bosses are likely busy and stressed, they don't have time to evaluate every little thing you do; you need to communicate it. Honestly put yourself in their shoes. The first biggest mistake I see people make in their careers is to never communicate their successes. The second biggest mistake I see it to try to squeeze their balls after you're lost your leverage. Yesterday's heroes are forgotten; make hay while the sun shines; etc. Once you've got the those first two taken care of, you have to learn to not squeeze too much and ideally squeeze their balls in a way that makes them feel thankful that you're squeezing them -- think ""win-win"". After all, if you can help your boss squeeze his boss' balls, you better be giving your boss' balls a good old fashioned squeezing. Nothing about this is meant to sound underhanded or backroom politic-ie. No one can succeed on soft skills alone and no one can succeed on pure expertise. You need to blend the two and hone them to your environment -- or go find a more suitable environment. A high performer who can't capitalise on his performance quickly ends up in a ""too valuable to promote"" position. You seem to have very little respect for your coworkers in general. So why the fuck are you still there?!? A true high performers rarely can stomach working with people they despise as long as you've been with this company."