"I'm not sure you are paying attention to your own comments. If you go back up to the first comment to which I reply, that comment is you singling out Scandinavia as an example of what is right. That aside, when you say ""a lot"" of workers, you are discounting the scale of migrant work in Scandinavia vs just California, let alone the whole USA. The population of Sweden is 9 million people. There are over 11 million people living in the US as illegal immigrants, let alone the other 37 million legal immigrants living here. The US admits roughly 1 million immigrants per year, and there are roughly 1.5 million immigrants total living in Sweden. And before you use anywhere in the EU as an example for immigration, you should take note of the escalating nationalism across every election everywhere in the EU. Your utopia isn't adjusting well to having a few Syrians around. And after all of that, almost none of it is relevant to what I was actually talking about, which was this fact - through geographic happenstance and political coincidence, the US has millions of people who literally risk their lives to come work in conditions you deride as deplorable and unacceptable. They risk life and limb and family to sneak here to get this work by the millions. We as Americans do not have the will to totally shut them out, and as a result there is a black market for cheap labor. When you see these words, I bet you think I am justifying something just as much as I think you think you are defending something when you say this is bad. Here this: I am not making a moral judgement, I am stating a fact. And as long as there is a supply of millions of people willing to work for less than minimum wage, there will be a black market for labor paying less than minimum wage. I've actually erased several closing paragraphs because I am unclear as to the point you even contend to make right now, based on your statement that you never singled out Scandinavia and then proceeded to talk about Scandinavia. I hope you can understand that history, geography, and politics all influence the situations counties experience uniquely, and that wages are a market driven phenomenon. These are not moral statements."