Hey mate, You haven't shared enough details for me to be more specific, but what you might want to do is pretty simple. Fact is that 80% of all financial models are the same. The only thing that is different is the revenue forecasts. Only v few people have the 80% done already ;) If you say service business and mean you are basically a consultancy, this is pretty simple. - Rev - forecasts # clients per month. What is ave rev per client? (Guess what is reasonable.. call someone who has done before and buy coffee- mind rape them for data points!!) Times the two. That's your rev. Get fancy and you can differentiate to when you book and bill revenue etc. - Staff - what is the contribution of staff per projects. You could say 40% of a dev per client and 20% of a designer. Times the staff contribution with a roundup function (you can't employ 40% of a person) against the # of projects. That tells you staff requirement depending on projects you get. You need to know the average project lengh though. You can hack this but the formulas to automate are not simple (I did this for the enterprise sales model i made) - Expenses - you have rent, utilities, server costs etc. You have fixed and variable. So say 400 pm per person. so times the variable by the # staff. Add the fixed base and you have the expenses. - Marketing - where do customers come from? If you are doing direct sales as founder, then simple. It's just your salary cost. You can make more complicated as you get bigger. - P&L - you pull all this shizzle into a rev, less costs = profit..loss. Your staff costs are what will kill you. Well, if you close enough deals who cares ;) It's taken me years to be proficient at this. I knew nothing when I started. You can learn it just takes time. Having resources to rip off is a good place to start. Check out this for saas- all the terms may be too much for you, but you can understand the logic: https://www.saastr.com/saas-financial-plan-2-0-from-christoph-janz/ David teten got an intern to make a model for him. It has a lot of the building blocks you want but is super ugly: teten.com/assets/docs/Startup-Financial-Model.xls I actually make templates for serious founders raising money. I made a lengthy video on each sheet of one of them for SaaS. Tots free. Watch them and you will understand all the logic of what a serious model is involved with. You can check the screen shots of all my models to see the line items. They're on my site anyway. if you're a founder there is a tonne of other free stuff. Video are here for you: https://www.alexanderjarvis.com/2017/08/20/training-videos-sme-consumer-saas-fundraising-model/ Btw, if you'd love some basic bitch videos on how to model basics, I'm happy to make some. Can screen record me making something from scratch a few times. Just give me specific title ideas and happy to bust some out. Oh. I also made a free excel training course. There's like 25 free classes with an excel you have to fill in to test if you learn the formula. You can get them here: https://www.alexanderjarvis.com/products/excel-training/ Just register and the excel class is sent to you every day I'm all about helping founders. If your broke AF send me a message and happy to try help you out. If you're looking for something super basic (which is better than what you'll make anyway) I can prob bust something simple in 20mins as a favor to the community.