> One of the best news I've heard today. That's the right way JetBlue, awesome gesture. I don't know on this one. While it gives the warm fuzzies, all it means in reality is the seats will be all be sold out really fast. The economist in me that I pretend to be while listening to Freakonomics in my car, wants to point to this quote, that I feel turned me around on this: >LEVITT: And consumer surplus is one of the most important things in economics. One of the incredible beauties of the market system is that for so much of what we buy, we would have been willing to pay way more for it than we actually have to. A great example is water. How much do we pay for water each month? I don’t know what your water bill is. Mine is maybe $40. But think about how much we’d be willing to pay for water. Water is — I mean we’d be willing to pay almost anything for water, but it’s really, really cheap. So in that way, the modern economy has arranged things so that we get things we need — like water and food — much more cheaply than we’d be willing to pay. And that is really important. That is really the magic of the market. > DUBNER: To me what sounds like the problem is how do you measure that? Because I need to know what you in your head were willing to pay before you came to the store and then were confronted with the actual price. So how typically have economists measured those two numbers — what you pay and what you’re willing to pay? > LEVITT: So, Dubner, you have never been more right about anything in your life than what you just said because we simply have no good ways to measure consumer surplus. Because we know what people pay, we can sometimes see that, observe how much they buy. But we never see what’s inside their head, what their choice, what they would be willing to pay. If we’re really going to estimate a consumer surplus, what you would want to do is you would want to take a consumer and somehow magically you’d want to reproduce that consumer in 10 parallel universes. source: http://freakonomics.com/podcast/uber-economists-dream/