">Jesus you're retarded. False. >Should he take the time out of his day to condemn every group that might like him individually? If that group is publicly chanting something like ""Heil Trump"" in between chanting ""Blood and Soil"", yeah, you condemn them as soon as possible and as strongly as possible. If your father was arrested an illegal Klan rally, and you don't want people to think you're as racist as Daddy, you denounce them as soon as possible and as strongly as possible. If you can threaten North Korea with off the cuff remarks at the golf course, you can do the same for a couple of backyard Nazis. >He condemned the violence on both sides and political violence in general. Except, nobody asked him to condemn both sides here. People have a right to self-defense. Virginia is a stand your ground state. And considering how the 'peaceful nazi protesters' had soda cans filled with concrete, and batons, and riot shields, and body armor -- its pretty safe to say one group's violence was pre-meditated. >What more do you fucking want? Competent leadership? Someone not under a three pronged federal investigation? No white supremacists in the white house? Those seem pretty easy for a political party not smoking trailer park meth and sucking Russian Presidential Cock. >If anything he shouldn't have said anything about it just to piss you people off so you make a fool of yourselves. Should business owners and public figures issue public statements condemning any white supremacists that might be patrons or admirers of their work? There you go with that cuck logic again. If those business owners and public figures campaign for the highest office of the land, and promise the American people that they'll call terrorism ""terrorism"" and not ""extremism"" or any other nomenclature -- then yes, I'll expect them to denounce a violent terrorist group holding a rally around a civil war participation trophy and murdering an innocent women. And Nazism in general. Stop trying to generalize to absurdity like you have some actual defensible point. No we wouldn't expect some beta cuck like yourself or an unemployed tow truck driver to need to openly denounce white supremacy 24/7 -- but you're not The President. Its pretty fucking routine for the President to issue a response to terrorism."