(Assuming in the US) There are several possibilities, but to be honest anyone here is only going to be able to make guesses. To get the answer, the account holder (your girlfriend) is going to have to contact the bank and ask them directly. Some possibilities include: Suspicion of money laundering, suspicion of possible illegal activities in the account (e.g. check kiting), suspicion of possible prohibited activities (not necessarily illegal, but as defined in the account agreement, they may not allow activity related to gambling or pornographic businesses, for example), suspicion of business activity taking place in a non-business account, insufficient KYC (Know Your Customer) information on the account (such as they did not or could not verify required information during the account opening process), a negative ChexSystems report (for example, they found out through ChexSystems she had derogatory information reported on another account at another bank previously), or extended period of time it was overdrafted (usually 30+ days). I should also add that any bank/credit union has just as much a right to close an account with a customer, as the customer has the right to close their account with the bank/credit union, at any time, without notice. In *most* cases (although not all), when a bank closes an account, they will send a letter to the address on file for the account beforehand explaining the reasons. Have her check her mail. Are you sure the account is actually *closed*, and not just *blocked*? It could just be in a blocked status due to overdraft or some other reason, which is very different from being closed. As for where the direct deposit went - if the account is truly closed, then the money is being returned back to the company that initiated the direct deposit - usually takes 2-3 business days. Your girlfriend will have to contact the company's payroll department to arrange other means of payment, such as a check. In any case, it's all speculation at this point until the bank can be contacted to find out the real reason why. (Tip for the future: Look at switching to a bank that has 24/7 customer service)