"Time for Redditors to not understand that the reason someone is losing cash matters far more than the fact that they're losing cash in the first place. If you have positive unit economics on every transaction and spend your margins on customer acquisition, you're losing money but gaining market share. Once you stop growing, all of the customer acquisition spend is now pure profit. This is a great reason to be losing money and raising capital from equity/debt. If you have *negative* unit economics on every transaction and have *no* margins, you are resorting to financing to just keep your operations running. When you stop growing, you're still losing money. The only way you start having a margin is by reducing cost or increasing prices. Uber has experimented with raising prices and it is reducing their losses. But it's also reducing their market share. Revenue growth but market share loss means they're growing slower than the rest of the market. Not great. In fact, catastrophic, because it means people are jumping ship because of increased prices. People keep comparing Kalanick to Bezos and Jobs, and could not be any more wrong. Jobs made incredibly high margin, noncommodity premium products that you couldn't get anywhere else. If you're putting companies on a ""commodity-noncommodity"" axis, Apple is going to be on the opposite end of Uber. Amazon does deliver a lot of commodity goods, but they lost money for so long not just to deliver goods at negative unit economics but to *also* build and scale infrastructure that let them achieve positive economies of scale. They built an infrastructure that rivals the logistics ops of anyone in the world. They also use negative unit economics as a loss leader; so for instance, selling the Fire and Kindle at a loss because people will buy zero marginal cost items like movies, music, ebooks, etc through them, in addition to serving as a portal for Amazon's entire online store. I have bought hundreds of dollars of digital goods through Amazon hardware. That's pure margin for them. How is UberX a loss leader? Uber shares none of these traits with Amazon or Apple."