"> Without welfare to keep it alive Tesla would've gone under, they had a few near death experiences. The near death experience was saved by Mercedes, not the government. Any other prior near death experiences were saved by private financing rounds from various VC firms and Musk himself. The government loan accelerated release and production ramp of the Model S, it did not save the company. By the way, Nissan took a loan almost 10x the size of Tesla's, I believe Ford took almost as much as well. I do not blame either, nor do I blame the government, because the point of these loans is to improve advanced powertrains to get us off of gasoline, which is a plague on the world, and thus these were a fantastic way to spend a small amount of our resources to make a big result - and produce a profit for the country at the same time. >On top of that, if you're wealthy enough to buy a model S in California, you qualify for nearly $10,000 in state and federal subsidies. The government is all up in there making it happen. The Model S has routinely destroyed every competitor in just about every way, has won top marks in nearly every review and just about every award it's eligible for, has received the best customer satisfaction numbers recorded, and has outsold the competition despite being new and constrained in many ways and even blocked from selling in multiple states. And is selling at a price point where $10,000 is nice, but hardly breaks the bank, especially considering the amount of people who buy the upgraded battery pack, which costs them $10,000, even though they don't need it. So you really think a car which is so much better than anything else anywhere near its price point is going to sell solely because of the tax credit? If so, I suspect you haven't driven one, because if you had, you would know that it sells because of the driving experience, not the tax credit. Rich people aren't sitting down with their friends' accountants to tell them to buy one, they're giving their friends test drives and blowing their freaking minds. Further, the oil industry has accepted subsidies for over 100 years, as have many other automakers, and as referenced before there are some states where the government blocks Tesla from selling cars. So I suppose ""the gubmint is all up in there making it happen"" for everyone else as well, aren't they?"