"Similar, but actually quite different. A negative income tax on the first $20,000/year has a couple of problems this scheme doesn't: 1) Administration costs and legal complexity. Are we ""prebating"" or ""rebating"" the stipend? How is someone supposed to get along if they lose their job unexpectedly in a rebate-based system, can they get their income-tax withholdings back up to $20,000/year? How does the government register changes in income to know when to write someone a check? 2) With a negative tax up to a certain *fixed* level, there's effectively a changing level of subsidy depending how much of the per-capita income is the break-even tax level. If the per-capita income is $45,000/year (our current GDP per capita), then the subsidy level is almost 50%, and if it goes up to $60,000/year (our current mean household income), the subsidy level is then 33%. The system I described and steepk (IIRC) invented fixes the subsidy percentage in relation to the mean reported income (effectively fixing a *relative class level* as minimum) rather than a particular monetary amount (whose relative buying power versus inflation or other incomes can fluctuate wildly). We pick a subsidy level, say 1/3 (33.33333%). We then impose a flat income tax of that level plus a little bit more for administration costs (say, 35%). At the end of the year, everyone is taxed at that flat level, and the government scrapes its administration costs off the top and now has a big pot with 1/3 of everyone's income in it. This is divided into one portion for each taxpayer, and those portions into monthly or biweekly pieces. These pieces are sent out regularly as checks to the taxpayer, and *these checks are not taxed as income*. That last bit is what makes this so nice: it turns the tax progressive, in fact more progressive than our current system. After taxes and *after stipend*, only the rich will pay an *effective* tax rate asymptotically close to the real 35%. Most people without incomes many, many times the size of their stipends will be looking at an effective tax rate of less than 15%, including the tax-paying middle class and the professional upper-middle class who currently bitch so much about our tax rates being so confiscatory (which they *are*, for the abysmal level of social services we receive). Now, to get back to the big benefits of fixing the subsidy percentage. This means that the subsidy grows with mean income, effectively functioning as easy to run, fair, and direct wealth redistribution without the difficulty of trying to create efficient, productive WPA-style jobs or imposing market-distorting subsidies. It also means that we can allow things like automation to improve the productivity of our economy because *everyone* gets a share: if automating a certain job is truly more efficient than having a worker do it, the capitalist's income-gain from automation will push up the mean income, and therefore the basic income, further than the worker's lesser income and the capitalist's lesser profit would have."