"I don't even know where to begin, you're truly all over the place. The number of upvotes on your post has absolutely zero relevance to the fact that you believe Trump has caused this minuscule reduction in the deficit. You literally said it yourself. You posted an article and stated ""let's discuss"" and then when it was discussed, your argument was completely refuted in a heartbeat. Why didn't you respond to /xmantipper 's post? He laid out a rational argument to refute your opinion, however you unfortunately didn't have the facts or understanding on the subject to back your opinion. So instead, you stayed away from that comment/argument because it didn't reflect your biased way of thinking. This is the basis of which the shrinking pro-Trump base now stand. They project their opinions, then cherry-pick the feedback that helps them feel good about their opinions while refusing to respond to any arguments that have factual information & merit. I'm going to give you some advise. /Economy isn't a good place for you to learn about the basics of economics. And I know you do not know the bare basics, because anyone with any clue about how modern economics works knows that a President cannot enact true economic growth or can significantly reduce a national budget deficit in 8 months while not introducing & passing one piece of meaningful legislature or enacting any piece of their economic agenda. (Which both sides of the aisle are fully aware & accept that Trump hasn't been able to accomplish yet) Now this is going to put you in a tough spot. The S&P under Obama was up 30% after his first 8 months in office. By your rational, Obama grew the overall wealth of the top 500 companies in the U.S. by 30% before he was able to enact any legislature. But no, Obama couldn't have done that, because he only introduced destructive economic legislature from the get-go. Therefore, the President must have no control over economic success or failure within their first year of the Presidency, before they can make use of their economic agenda. However, that would go against your entire argument you set forward in this post. Puts you in a bit of a pretzel. Sorry for the long response. It's just tough seeing someone make repeated, simple, basic, economic mistakes in the /economics subreddit. Feel free to PM me if you're looking for some good books to get you started!"