Slide 1 Blogspot: NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud - FC2 Knowhow deanciana Slide 2 NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton saeo.net — Current Class Dates (subject to change): Scheduled as Needed based on Student Demand. Email us a​t​o​n​l​i​n​e​t​r​a​i​n​@​n​o​r​t​o​n​a​u​d​i​t​s​.​c​o​m if you are interested in this course. Description - This is an advanced-level class that takes an in-depth examination of severe noncompliance, clinical data fabrication and falsification, scientific misconduct and fraud cases. The course focus is on developing skills for preventing fraud and misconduct and preparing clinical research professionals to better handle severe noncompliance. Slide 3 Source: saeo.net #NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton #norton scientific reblog clintonmccage: NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton Current Class Dates (subject to change): Scheduled as Needed based on Student Demand. Email us a​t​o​n​l​i​n​e​t​r​a​i​n​@​n​o​r​t​o​n​a​u​d​i​t​s​.​c​o​m if you are interested in this course. Slide 4 Description - This is an advanced-level class that takes an in-depth examination of severe noncompliance,clinical data fabrication and falsification, scientific misconduct and fraud cases. The course focus is on developing skills for preventing fraud and misconduct and preparing clinical research professionals to better handle severe noncompliance. Source: saeo.net #NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton #norton scientific reblog eddiemccrane: Slide 5 NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton Current Class Dates (subject to change): Scheduled as Needed based on Student Demand. Email us a​t​o​n​l​i​n​e​t​r​a​i​n​@​n​o​r​t​o​n​a​u​d​i​t​s​.​c​o​m if you are interested in this course. Description - This is an advanced-level class that takes an in-depth examination of severe noncompliance, clinical data fabrication and falsification, scientific misconduct and fraud cases. The course focus is on developing skills for preventing fraud and misconduct and preparing clinical research professionals to better handle severe noncompliance. Slide 6 Source: saeo.net #NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton #norton scientific 1 note reblog pittturvey: Norton Scientific : Blogspot | Facebook Fraud Prevention | NORTON SCIENTIFIC SCAM-Detection and Prevention of Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct A Norton : Social-bookmarking.net Current Class Dates (subject to change): Scheduled as Needed based on Student Demand. Email us a​t​o​n​l​i​n​e​t​r​a​i​n​@​n​o​r​t​o​n​a​u​d​i​t​s​.​c​o​m if you are interested in this course. Slide 7 Description - This is an advanced-level class that takes an in-depth examination of severe noncompliance,clinical data fabrication and falsification, scientific misconduct and fraud cases. The course focus is on developing skills for preventing fraud and misconduct and preparing clinical research professionals to better handle severe noncompliance. Slide 8 Class Agenda/Modules - Instructors Make a Difference Defining Clinical Research Fraud and Misconduct Evaluation of Case History R.E.S.E.A.R.C.H. TM Skills Program Advanced Auditing and Monitoring Skills for Prevention Case Development