> Even if Tesla takes care of the issue quickly and gave me a loaner, it's still hours if not a day that I wouldn't have a drivable car. The thing is, it's really not. They can come get your car from wherever it is and drop off a loaner at the same time. The loaner is generally a Model S (unless they run out, and then they offer you a free rental of something cool - I got offered a Jaguar for my Roadster's warranty service once, but chose to take a Leaf instead because I am fully over gasoline). Oftentimes they can pick up the car while you're at work and have it back to you by the end of the day. Like they mentioned, I think only 2 repairs required an overnight stay - and they had access to a loaner at the time anyway. Further, they mention multiple times that many of the repairs were for issues related to early production cars - the door handle problem, for example, was only in the first 1,000 cars or so before a software update fixed it. The software update for that one was applied over the air. >and my admittedly short experience with our own Camry so far Interestingly, CR dropped their recommendation for the Camry last year (according to the most recent info I could find, which is [from October](http://www.cnbc.com/id/101148312), so there may be something more recent than that), while they still recommend the Model S based on their review and reliability survey. That article even claims the Model S to be above average in reliability (though I think they may have gotten that wrong). >Since these two reviews switched me from being interested in Tesla to being apprehensive, I'd say that they were quite unfavorable. Again, I wonder if you read the full reviews, or followed their various updates on the long-term tests. Because both have been overjoyed with the car all along, and like I said, it almost feels to me like they're hunting for things to say they had problems with just so they seem to be objective. One of the guys even said something to that effect in the CR talking cars segment on Youtube. Also, you should try driving the car, because, like CR and Edmunds, you will still be plenty interested in the car were you to drive it. Yes, it's that good - just as their reviews claim.