I admit, in the long term there are a good number of kinks to work out, but in the end I want to see some system where people in general can seize the means to their own well being without stepping on one another. The management corruptions you talked about is another reason why I prefer Worker-Co-ops to be the optimum form of issuing business, because its not just a few people in charge, it's a whole social group acting in unison. When you discuss the mom-and-pop store having no suppliers, it would be good to promote some way of each money supply to have a share of each industry within it. There are always some people in every trade looking for their next job. They just have to find a supply where there trade is in demand. The process is self feeding. Next off, or course the mechanism of the system would work in a way that firm's can't just pay themselves with their own debt, they have to issue it to their creditors first, and even then it's practically impossible to accept your own debt as payment. You would have to take some from a competitor at best. What I've been trying to do is find some system where no one institution or no one alliance holds the keys to the definition of value. If you have five to eight dictators fighting at once as opposed to one financial dictator who can oversee all, like the fed scenario you just described, It's more possible for people who are freer relatively to survive freely between the borders of these spheres of influence, as they can play each dictator off the other. at least from your dialogue I can see you're one of those who gets what I'm trying to aim for. Here's another idea I've explored with it, that's similar but may make the environment slightly different, so let me know what you think what I call the Revolving Tax Window, where the government accepts different bondnotes, both in quantity and specific assortments of notes, in intervals of every business quarter, so that the demand for specific notes changes four times a year. From January until the end of March they could accept Taxes in notes from Firms A,F,H, and T, and for April into June it could be just B and S, and so on. The options for note issuing could be set on a list of firms registered with the SEC or whoever. The combination for the quarter could be picked at random by a randomizing algorithm, so no firm could make a plan to be a market dictator, and a sense of dynamism is maintained in the economy. Obviously, the more firms are properly registered on this list, the more combinations of monetary combinations you have, and the more power is distributed from too much control by anybody. What you can do is choose whether or not you want there to be less or more notes in the next quarter, because just like fiscal policy and conventional monetary policy, the extremes have trade offs, but different ones; to few currencies, the economy may be stimulated, but you get market dictators via monetary oligopoly, even if temporary. Too many, you avoid market dictators who will be more focused on getting a real return by investing in competing ventures based on what will actually return investment, but the economy may not be as stimulated. What do you think of this structural alternative? (One of the focal sources I've been building my economic policy on has been *Debt: The First 5,000 Years* by David Graeber, if anyone's familiar.)