"To be fair, I don't necessarily think that our guy was actively *trying* to screw us over. In retrospect I've known a few people like him; people with major control issues who get extremely anxious and morose when something isn't in their hands, and who kind of develop this authoritarian mindset because they don't trust the group as a whole. That leads to a lot of paranoia and projection. I think he kind of developed a sort of ""Oh no.. I think he's gonna kill me. Well, I'll *kill him first*!"" mentality and that affected his thinking. Every complaint he brought up privately with our president was something he was actually the one bringing to the table: ""They think I'm power hungry!"" (Actually, we didn't, but thank God we found out that he actually was before it was too late.) ""They don't trust me as the executive to make the decisions!"" (He seemed to be the strongest moderating and guiding voice in the meetings but apparently wasn't actually voicing or expressing any of his actual plans because he didn't trust us to know them.) ""They're gonna cut and run and we'll be left to keep things together!"" (He set of a chain of events which led to us having to scramble to get everything out of his name in order to keep our original timetable.) After this all went down it came to light how absurdly neurotic and specific his fears were, down to badmouthing my wife for being controlling or something because I wanted to discuss my portion of the buy-in with her before I paid it, when he'd never even met her. Anyway, I've had actual adult bosses like this and they invariably find ways of bringing people down over little personal disagreements regardless of how well they're performing. The paranoia and ego driving things for that personality type can be hard to see at first because they're invariably charismatic and on-message and capable of really looking like they're taking the whole of the picture into account before making reasoned suggestions, and you need somebody with these skills for top leadership positions. I do have a measure of pity for these people, as they seem to live in a state of really subtle but profound internal dissonance that nobody else really gets a look at. The main problem here is that it's easy to conflate image with substance, as you have to have a fair amount of knowledge about the topic being discussed to parse their behavior, and especially once a large power structure entrenches around the guy the aura of infallibility can really build which makes it tough to distinguish between a well-reasoned interpretation of reality and a specious one articulated well. Our last meeting with the new structure was great and we're more excited than ever about getting started with less baggage!"