"The standard double-entry approach would just be to create a Liability account for the loan, and then make a transfer from that account to your Asset (Savings) account when the loan proceeds are distributed to you. After that point, the loan doesn't ""belong"" to your Savings account in any way. Each account and transaction is tracked separately. So, you might for instance pay that loan back with a transfer from your Checking account, even though the initial disbursement arrived into your Savings account. In order to see how much of a loan you have remaining, you need to look at the loan's Liability account to see what transactions occurred in it and what its remaining balance is. It sounds like what you're really trying to accomplish is the idea of ""earmarking"" or ""putting into an envelope"" certain assets for certain purposes. This kind of budgeting isn't really something that Gnucash excels at. It does have some budget features, but there's more about being able to see how actual expenses are to expected expenses for a reporting period, not about being able to ask ""How much 'discretionary' assets do I have left before I start hitting my 'emergency fund'"". The closest you get is splitting up your asset accounts into subaccounts as you suggest, in which case you can ""allocate"" funds for your specific purposes and make transfers between them as needed. That can work well enough depending on your exact goals, though it can sometimes make it a little trickier to reconcile with your actual bank statements. But there's not really an accounting reason to associate the ""emergency fund"" portion of your assets with the remaining balance of your loan; though there's nothing stopping you from doing so if that's what you're trying to do. Accounting answers questions like ""How much have I spent on X in the past?"" and ""How much do I own right now?"". If you want to ask ""How much am I allowed to spend on X right now?"" or ""Am I likely to run out of money soon?"", you may want a budgeting tool rather than an accounting tool."