"I was recently terminated from a company that promoted its company culture as one of the mainstays of the perks there. I can assure you that in many cases, it is all a facade for any company claiming how amazing their culture is. You can easily go to Glassdoor and check out the reviews and get an idea of what the true company culture is like. At this particular company, it was almost cult-like in how they pushed the culture down your throats. Every Monday was a ""TGIM"" Monday and every department hold meetings after 6PM. Part of the ritual was that dinner would be served every Monday night, catered from popular restaurants around the city. Most people don't get home until 8-10PM and most of them start 8-9AM. If you failed to show up for these TGIM's you were an outcast and managers often confront those that they noticed were not present. Of course one of the big selling points of working at this company was the many ""perks"" they try to entice you with. Beer on tap on every floor, free coffee and spa water, tons of snacks on a weekly basis, company events, wellness programs, etc. Of course they will often pay you 30-40% under the market rate for your skills. In fact, almost everyone I knew there have told me they took a pay cut to work for this company. The company would also hold major annual corporate events, namely a huge ""Summer Camp"" event where they will fly everyone in around from the world and spend 4 days at a weekend retreat. There's also an annual company summit where, again the company flies everyone in to a location to hold a major conference. All of these events however, cuts into your actual vacation time as they subtract it away from your accrued vacation. These events are mandatory for all employees to attend. Underneath the facade of ""culture"", the management was extremely toxic. If you did not drink the koolaid, you were almost assuredly on your way out. As this is an at-will company, I would often see people let go for the most stupid reasons, if any were even given (including myself). Anybody who voiced concerns or had different ideas going against someone in charge were soon to be ""performance managed"" out of the company. I highly encourage anyone looking for a job to check out the prospective company's Glassdoor page. It is a great resource and will truly give you an idea about what kind of ride you'll be in for."