"And what a difference a day makes and as the dust begins to settle things become a little clearer. The big take away from the Orange Orangutans buffoonery at the United nations was that ["" Hey!! we really don't have a Missile shield""](https://www.rt.com/usa/403895-us-may-not-be-capable-shooting-down-missile/) ""heh heh . .yeah . .we was just funning with you and our Nato allies, actually we buck naked"" So North Korea is off the Menu, they get to live free and prosper and grow and thrive, minus the occasional irritating yip yap which will eventually diminish and disappear altogether. So That leaves Pakistan and Iran . . . well Pakistan does not have ICBMs but it does have nukes and tactical ones, so that could do some real damage in Afghanistan, subs could do some real damage, that pretty Island Deigo Garcia could be struck On the other hand, Iran it seems really can't do much at the present time but poses a threat to Israel and has missile tech that reaches Israel and if Iran was to go nuclear, well that would pretty much be end game. So in America's sort routine to externalize internal problems by choosing the easiest problem to solve #Congratulation IRAN . .You are IT! You better hope those S-400s work, I reckon you have about 3-6 months Pakistan can breath a sigh of relief . .for the moment . .but do remember First Iran was an American Ally, then Iraq, then they destroyed Iraq, now Iran, after Iran, its you . . .over the next decade the US will neutralize your edge in Air superiority, as good as your pilots are, technology will eventually win, so you need alternates, the SU-47 is looking real good, and when the choice comes between a nation with ICBMs and one with out . .Guess who wins? Yah . you better spend the next 10 years developing ICMBs and for the love of god, if you are going to pick a leader, don't pick one who spends all his time making idiotic infrastructure projects to enrich his own family instead of preparing for this day that was to come, any blind man could see. And while all the hallabaloo was going on . .the Fed under the cover of dark tried to slip one by . . . we are watching you gramma . . .It will be interesting to see how you sell your dirty laundry in a non-existent market, I think you are going to fuck this up and the whole wobbly construct is coming down and when it does Nobody is going to need ICBMs"