"> You said all terrorists are Muslims, which is not true at all because most acts of terror comes from right winged population Let's keep it simple instead of a lengthy argument: how many Muslim terrorist attacks in the last year versus right wing? And, I am going to ask again: please tell us about a right wing ""terrorist"" attack against **general** civilians. >>""Do you think a rightwing would attack Muslims if they did not attack westerners? Do you think rightwing attacks are more than Muslim attacks? Are they even 1% of all attacks and harm?"". > THIS IS THE CORE PROBLEM I AM TALKING ABOUT. THIS IS WHY MILLIONS OF GERMANS SLAUGHTERED THE JEWISH POPULATION. THIS IS THE RESULT OF HATE SPEECH AND HARD RIGHT PROPAGANDA. > Swap jew with muslim! Wow! I agree with you that TRUE Hate Speech, by Hitler and his movement, made one of the most cultural and educated group of people into monsters against Jews. Despite Jews being exact opposite of what they were portrayed in that hate speech. Now, when I say ""Muslims are terrorists"", and other things against Muslims, do you think I have no basis for my ""hate speech""? And do I call to ""exterminate and kill all the Muslims? Does anyone call for actions against ALL(!) Muslims? > The crime rate of the refugees is actually a bit lower then the rate of the rest of the population, so not big a problem. > The overall crime rate rise significantly though since the start of the refugees crisis as a result of massive right wing activity. > Needles to say that the actual crime rate if jews in Germany was no different then the non jew crime rate just as it is now with muslims. That's not true!! Refugees do more crime than Germans, I can prove it to you, and you blame Germans for crimes actually done by Muslims. You even go to the extra step to claim that Jews will be as criminal as Germans and refugees, which is not true. Never was true. Here's the problem: you really really really want to believe that Jews, Germans and Muslims are same. This is not true. Check the news and statistics. Japan, Norway, Hungary, Poland, etc accept zero refugees and look at the problems they have with crime, especially with the Jews among them."