"> The 20 million people added to healthcare is a number they boast and brag about when they dont realize (from a study im having a hard time reproducing so take it with a grain of salt) roughly 65% of those people could afford health insurance prior to the aca just chose not to buy and because of the mandate were forced to. Yes, *that* is one of the reasons I supported the ACA. The problem of rising health care costs, as one of the sources I linked to showed, is the ""free rider"" problem. Too many people walk into the emergency room uninsured, or *under*-insured. They get emergent care that they are not covered for, and the hospitals jack up the prices greatly in the hopes of getting a larger portion reimbursed by Medicare. Now, who pays for that Medicare reimbursement? You and I, of course. The taxpayers do. And we pay a heavily artificially inflated version of that price. This is the most jacked up form of universal health care, but that is what the GOP if fighting to reinstall. > I also know that for me health insurance prior to the ACA was significantly lower roughly 50% cheaper and that doesnt even begin to touch the hikes a lot of people i know saw. I have no doubt this is true, and another reason that I support the ACA - not because it equates to higher prices for you, but because for the first time it made younger adults actually responsible for their medical bills. When the ACA was enacted, we had a guy in our company who was about 23 years old. He saw his insurance costs go up by 50%. We covered is insurance increases, because we supported him. However, what we found when we went back and compared the insurance that he had with the insurance that he has is that the first policy didn't cover anything but the most extreme circumstances. It was a junk policy, that left the taxpayer liable for a lot of stuff - ambulatory response, x-rays, medicine, etc. There was nothing in there for preventative care - which as the study I linked showed, greatly impacted health for the worse. > They have some of the lowest income tax rates in the world. Again, Switzerland has *lower* tax rates than the US, but they don't even crack the [top 20 when it comes to countries with low taxes](http://www.businessinsider.com/wef-countries-with-the-lowest-tax-rates-in-the-world-2015-10/#2-qatar-113-qatar-edges-out-the-regions-other-oil-rich-state-to-come-in-second-place-but-still-loses-out-to-one-other-nation-17). Most of the countries in that list are relatively poor countries to the average citizen, with weak infrastructure. Many of those countries are monarchies in which the ruling family controls the number one source of income - oil - so there is no taxes, they just skim their money right off the top. These are not countries that we would want to live/retire in. Switzerland succeeds with low taxes because they have a very efficient (universal) health care system, and they have almost no military to fund. > While i do not own my own company or have anything to do with R&D i can for a fact disprove your theory Again speaking in absolutes. This denotes that you can disprove every situation possible to show that government is worse than commercial. As I said, if you thought that before you entered my industry, you quickly see the flip side of that coin. Your example is a perfect example of that. So you work in construction, an industry in which commercial is notorious for *underbidding* a contract (whether to government or to private), and then running into *unexpected* overages that cause the job to go over schedule, over budget. These companies succeed because there are a very small number of providers that can accomplish certain jobs, so they tend to stick around (just like the big banks) even though they aren't the best. Its not like the government just sits around and takes it. I know of at least [one federal contractor who went to federal prison](https://www.justice.gov/archive/usao/id/news/2012/sept/large09192012.html) for fraudulently winning contracts in my part of the country. > The private sector will always have a need to innovate and that need will always be filled with or without the government the only difference is the private sector wont keep throwing money at an unsustainable rate like the government does because if they dont see results its not worth funding. And this is *why* the government can succeed in areas that commercial cannot. This is why government got the first people on the moon, not commercial. This is why we have already sent missions to mars, whereas Musk is going to make those trips more efficient. It is because government has tremendous resources that they can throw at a problem. Even the richest man in the world will run out of money before he can solve the big problems. As I told a poster earlier, JIEDDO spent over $1T working on the IED problem in Iraq / Afghanistan. This was the number one killer of our troops. There were *many* inventions that came out of this. There is no company in this world that had the resources to tackle this problem solely. What the government does a great job in is rallying the troops, and assembling resources to tackle a major task that would be unclimbable by the individual. > Id also like to add you are near the same age as my father who also served in the military and i thank you for your service. Thank you. I just hope that the Navy got as much out of me, as I learned and earned from serving. It is the basis of our company."