"This is such alarmist bullshit, although I shouldn't be surprised to see this kind of clickbait on a reddit economic/financial/business subreddit. Aggregate (which obviously includes sand) is and always has been a primary input for the global construction market. Therefore, there always has and will be demand for it. Land that's able to mine aggregate is practically unlimited relative to other natural resources. As a result of the large supply, it's incredibly cheap. As an example: a Google search for ""aggregate cost ton"" returns a company selling the stuff at less than $25/ton (http://www.bryanrock.com/commercial/price-list). The cost of delivering that aggregate to a work site is significantly more than the cost of the actual material! There is no shortage of aggregate. If all of the statements made in the article are true (which I think we have reason to doubt given the overall quality of the piece), the only thing they provide evidence for is that A) demand has grown significantly year over year since 2010 (aka the end of the financial crisis and most recent market low point), B) Its sometimes difficult to create aggregate in some local markets because neighboring property owners don't want aggregate mines next door (ie, zoning laws are a challenge when trying to develop new mines), and C) organized crime controls the aggregate production in India (note: underdeveloped countries often have certain industries that are effectively controlled by organized criminal gangs). There's nothing here that even remotely suggests that the world is running out of aggregate. This article is a prime example of the clickbait bullshit that absolutely floods reddit (especially the economic/financial/business communities). Reddit has some really amazing communities, but unfortunately I've yet to find a good one that deals with these subjects. PS - I never write responses this long but I'm intoxicated and felt like sharing. Also - I'd like to exclude /r/personalfinance from my rant. Those guys actually do have a pretty good handle on the basic theory / knowledge / best practices."