"> I think the primary reason you're being down voted I find the right obnoxious and the left repulsive. Virtually every foolish thing in our society was born from the left and they should be roundly shown the distain their ideas deserve. Now the right has joined the party and is using the exact same thug tactics to try to instantiate THEIR tyranny by government force. It's revolting, but the left wins on just pure malice and stupidity. > all too often better candidates for a job are excluded in favor for those who are of similar religion or race as the employe So what? It's the employer's money and his/her company. If they make these kinds of decision too often or too long, they will lose out competitively to people who do hire Best In Class. > Employing people to help create your master vision fundamentally incorporates compromise, for the betterment of society. But I don't exist for the ""betterment of society"". I exist to promote my interests, my family - my enlightened self interest. If I make bigoted hiring decisions and thereby exclude best-in-class employees it is *I* who will suffer, not society. This is a self-regulating problem. No one in their right mind wants to run a business with anything less than the best possible employees (at the lowest possible salary, BTW). The Dirty Little Secret here is that EEOC rules do NOT promote Best in Class. The Best In Class already have jobs and are in demand because - nothwithstanding the whining of the social do-gooders - no one can afford to ignore them as a substantial asset in the workforce, no matter how petty or bigoted any single person might otherwise be. No, EEOC laws are designed to give substandard candidates jobs they are not qualified for, do not deserve, and cannot perform well. This has the horrible secondary effect of having people quietly musing ""Did he get the job because he's Black/Jewish/Asian/Gay/ ... or is he really good at it?"" It's not fair, but that's what tampering with meritocracy does."