"> Uber wasn't trying to track everybody post ride for fun, they were trying to model future demand for cars before somebody punched in they needed a ride. Well, I'm sure that was *one* of the reasons - even the primary reason, perhaps. But it's a bad idea to assume that companies are only using certain data in the ways you think they are. Like, when you pay with your credit card at a restaurant.. You may expect them to keep a file linked to the card number so that they can track what people order over time. You *probably* don't expect them to explicitly match your credit card to your FB/LI/etc, create a file of information about you with pictures, and then use that info to instruct your server next time to talk about travel because you have a trip coming up. You *probably* don't expect them to share your file with other restaurants, so when you go to a different restaurant next week, the server there knows to upsell you on the wine. You *probably* don't expect them to sell that profile to data brokers who match all that to public record data (like mortgages and car registrations) in order to sell to yet other companies. But they do those things. Same deal with literally every company who obtains data. The correct calculation when deciding to give data to a company isn't ""what is the data and what do I think the company will do with it."" **The correct calculation is:** - what is the data - how can that data be combined with data about me from *everywhere* else: social networks, public records, credit card transactions, location data, etc - who could potentially get their hands on it (generally the company's tech/marketing partners and vendors + data brokers -- assume everyone) - what's the worst possible way that I imagine this could be used (e.g., to show me ads for italian restaurants, to show me higher prices because it looks like I'm a big spender, to prove that I'm cheating on my wife, etc) Then if you're still cool with giving them the data, awesome! Just remember that we have crappy memories, but computers don't. You might not recall that night in a hotel a few years ago, but computers do. You may not pick up on the subtle long term patterns in your own behavior (like the fact that your ""totally random cravings"" for a Big Mac occur predictably every 12-14 months), but computers will."