"I would say it actually applies to more readily to things like eating dinner than moral acts. The rationalization part need not be a justification, it may simply be the narrative your mind creates to give the illusion of agency to the actions you perform. What I was getting at originally though is that most people rationalize emotional decisions after the fact. The mark of a higher moral being is one whose rational morals are informed by but ultimately supersede its emotional instincts. Your counterexample of ""Deserved"" is telling. There are two distinct lines of thought in justice: punitive and preventative. Punitive focuses on retribution, while preventative focuses on isolation or elimination of an individual from a situation where it can do further harm. I think most punitive measures are at heart an emotional response to a situation or an entity, while preventative (usually) is informed by emotion but ultimately rational. This is another division in the potential reasons why someone might cheat a large faceless organization: on the emotional side one might live in a dramatically unequal society in which such organizations often blatantly act in a manner which is contrary to all social conditioning we receive from a very young age. Despite this, they thrive. This observation might lead to resentment and a sensation that such organizations deserve to be punished for their deeds, and a persons deeds might be justified because of this, at least in their heads. Alternatively, one might think that the continued existence of such organizations and the systems which make them successful is a force for human misery, and therefore work to lessen their impact and/or ultimately destroy them. I think it is interesting that most people would find the punitive/retributive motive for behavior to be childish, destructive, and immoral in these terms. Despite this they will happily apply it to individual humans who misbehave. It is puzzling and frustrating to me that people, in moments of anger and grief when these observations are MOST important, will not see this even when it is presented to them plainly. I chalk it up to the dominance of emotion over reason."