This would be stupid; and I wonder about the journalist who wrote that, but Google is hardly stupid. Google doesn't make money giving browsers away; Google makes money keeping you online as much as possible, creating the biggest possible mess of online data, private or public, so that you need them to search through it; in the process they get to know you best, and display the most relevant ads for you. To keep you online, Google needs the online experience to be better than the desktop applications based experience. They need to push web technologies progress forward as hard and fast as possible. To organize the web, they need data to be fairly open and standard. For instance, Facebook is completely closed, and although it contains amazingly valuable information, which Google could turn into truckloads of advertising money, they don't make a dime because they can't read it. That's why Google subsidized Firefox, before getting a second life insurance with Chrome: if Microsoft, or Apple, or Facebook, ends up owning a browser with 90% market share, they define de facto web standards, and you can bet they'll define them in a way which neutralizes Google. Google vitally needs open browsers, and it needs them to be good enough to keep a critical market share. With this respect, it doesn't matter much whether it's Firefox or Chrome, it simply has to be neither MS' nor Apple's nor FB's. Now Chrome has a big advantage compared to Firefox: Google decides exactly what goes in it. It allows Google to accelerate the adoption of new protocols, such as SPDY or offline mode support, by simply ordering its employees to put them in Chrome. It only works if Chrome is good enough to maintain a critical market share, of course; and if a proposal is good enough and open sourced, it will eventually end up in Firefox (which, remember, has nothing to refuse to Google). So the only advantage Google would get from killing the Firefox deal is that they'd save the $1e8. What are the negative outcomes? * they'd lose the right to pretend they strive not to be evil. Among numerous impacts, it's not unlikely that geeks will boycott Chrome in retaliation. And there's a risk that they find a smart way to seriously harm it. * If they propose a new standard today, they implement it in Chrome; if it's picked up a year later by Firefox, that's a momentum of adoption among leading web browsers. If Firefox dies, and Google puts an extension in Chrome, that's just Google putting a proprietary Google-extension into their Google-browser for their Google-websites, nothing to write home about. No momentum, no adoption, no risk that Apple or MS will ever be pressured into supporting it in their browsers. I'd bet they'd rather go on paying than taking so much risks.