"I dislike this argument that government pressure to make bad loans is the origin of subprime loans. In fact, the term subprime is because those type of loans can't be underwritten by the government. Usually the concept of government forcing bad loans, is government forcing banks to give minorities and low-income people loans for their first houses. The government requires w-2 income and a base credit score to procure these loans. At the peak of the bubble, the majority of home sales were for investment purposes, not homeownership purposes. Those who declared the housing market was wildly unstable (and who were proven right) were talking about the problem of mortgage brokers being incentivized to lie about a person not being qualified for prime government loans, in order to make more money by putting them in lucrative subprime loans (or simply advising them they were better off in subprime and could get cash out up front!). Also, liar no-doc loans were booming and speculators and house flippers were getting multiple properties in order to flip them for profit. Once upon a time these speculators would make sure they could rent out the house for the carrying costs if they needed to. 0 down, 0 interest meant a whole different speculatory ballgame. Ah, but maybe these speculators wouldn't have anyone to sell to if low income people couldn't get prime loans from the gov? All evidence points to them selling to other speculators until there was no fool left to hold the bag. See: Miami, Las Vegas, etc. EDIT: I forget that the argument has hopscotched from Fannie &Freddie, to the end of redlining, to the CRA, and now to changes made to the CRA, where the argument finally gains a bit of traction: > Law professor Michael S. Barr, a Treasury Department official under President Clinton,[63][131] stated that approximately 50% of subprime loans were made by independent mortgage companies that were not regulated by the CRA, and another 25% to 30% came from only partially CRA regulated bank subsidiaries and affiliates. Barr noted that institutions fully regulated by CRA made ""perhaps one in four"" sub-prime loans, and that ""the worst and most widespread abuses occurred in the institutions with the least federal oversight"" Further, the discussion devolves into whether the idea and enthusiasm of the rest started as a seed from the regulated banks, how much removing risk by Wall Street with non-government backed home loans through credit instruments had its origination in the CRA, and how much of the failure of ratings agencies to properly rate those credit instruments has to do with the US government and the CRA and not regular Wall Street greediness. So originally I stated ""no relationship"" but yes, once you get into the complexity of it all I'm sure we could find a way to say a global mania in speculation in real estate is due to the American government getting poor people into their first home, and generally has nothing to do with the human condition of wanting something for nothing and getting excited when the government allows you to sell blue sky returns to foolish speculators."