"> A) The base value from infrastructure is derived on a per-capita basis. It is a ""fixed cost"" as opposed to a variable one. In other words, roads are just as useful to me as they are to you regardless of my net worth. A tank, a missile, a police officer protects me the same as it does anyone else. A trucking company making millions of dollars a year on US highways derives more value from the roads than I do. Honestly anyone who says that they don't need to pay for roads because of their level of benefit from them is limited and I will call you a liar. Unless you are living in a box in the woods 100s of miles away from civilization you absolutely rely on the road system even if you never set foot on it. Though at the same time a national highway system was something no business would ever make as it derives too little value for an individual business for the scale required to reach enough of the market. This is a perfect example of a project that is good for society but won't see the tab picked up by business voluntarily. > B) As a percentage of income, infrastructure is far more valuable to low-income individuals than high-income individuals. A simple example: if I have $5M in net worth, I can invest it in the stock market and stay home. If you don't have that option, you need to go to work and that will likely require roads. I won't be taking unemployment benefits, but you are far more likely to. And so on. It is foolish to assume your market value increases do not rely on infrastructure to happen. As much as paper-trading inflates value, for the most part, it is still tied to some kind of real work (or rather the expectation of) being done somewhere. That assumption of ability for a corporation to serve it's shareholders is based on the fact that companies have infrastructure needs handled and that expanding delivery to three new markets won't be hampered because the company must first complete the highway to serve these markets. The existence of infrastructure not only supports the market but allows you to exploit it. The internet here makes a great example. Prior to funding and a push by the government to standardize military and academic networks and technology as well as make microprocessors more powerful in order to stay ahead in tech race we had a mish mash of proprietary networks with very poor abilities to use them. Today we have the internet. A largely private system today however it would not exist without the involvement and funding from the government for the multiple programs that led to it's existence. > C) The activities of business owners generate massive tax revenues. These far outweigh their personal utility from infrastructure. If the taxes really outweighed utility businesses would not operate in the area at all. The thing is, they don't and taxes are not preventing businesses from growing. > D) Society captures the majority of individual commercial efforts (estimates vary, but typically 85%). In other words, if I generate $10.00 of value as an entrepreneur, I will realistically be able to capture only $1.50 of that. Yes but that is because unless you are doing it ALL yourself then you did not generate that $10. As a business owner you are in charge of managing resources to help generate that $10, you yourself however did not generate that $10. You had employees, and contractors, and people managing your building, payroll and yes even taxes. Every person involved in getting the product or service from idea to the door are all part of that $10. If your efforts in that co-ordination are netting you 15% of the total then you are beating the market already and I am not sure what your problem is. If you are looking to double or triple your investments you are looking for Las Vegas not Wall St or Main St. I think the issue I see among people with your opinion is a failure to understand 2nd and 3rd order effects. Your bubble extends to what you do in your daily life and the parts of it you visibly see and touch. The world you see and touch every day is supported and made comfortable by a whole system and people whom you will never see or know."