It's definitely a racket, but safety is a pretty good reason to implement regulation and filters on who can be a driver. Some places have had illegal taxis operating for years, which might be fine a lot of the time, but can also lead to drivers robbing/kidnapping/hurting people. This is the thing that taxi drivers keep trying to remind us of while they try to keep their jobs. It's also why a lot of people would be scared to try hitchhiking. In fact my previous manager went on a work trip to Africa years ago, was met at the airport by a prebooked taxi driver, got driven into the middle of nowhere and robbed at gunpoint. Similar might have happened to me and my mum after landing in Kuala Lumpur years ago, having a taxi driver offer us his services which we accepted, only for him to run away before we got to his car because the airport police saw him and gave chase on sight. Don't forget, when you get into a car you are at the mercy of the driver. If taxis were just any dude who happens to be in a car then it could easily be a bad guy pretending to be a taxi driver to find victims. But if taxis are uniquely marked, and drivers have special licenses, you at least get some assurance that their main motivation is to provide a taxi service. A key thing that Uber changed is making it feel like the drivers and passengers are easily identified by being on the app, while making a strong public case for their service, making drivers and passengers seem legitimate. But imagine getting into strangers cars a few years ago when it wasn't common. Or even easier, imagine getting into a strangers car that you didn't book through Uber. Imagine standing at a bus stop and having some dude in a Camry pull up and ask if you need a ride. Or seeing some guy on craigslist advertising himself as a private taxi who doesn't want to use Uber. If you're asking why taxis are so expensive everywhere, well that's probably more to do with them being scummy, protectionist businesses than anything else. But until a few years ago, the service that Uber (and AirBNB) provide was highly sketchy outside the proper channels.