"Doomed is the word I wouldn't say about this. Hollywood has been producing shitty movies (which is why nobody goes to movie theaters anymore) and it's harder to find movies to go to that are worth it. Sure.. There are an increasing amount of movies like ""Get Out"" and ""Moonlight"" and even ""Logan"" that are smart, insightful and fun to watch but with those movies comes movies like another Marvel Cinematic Universe film or a comedy film featuring Seth Rogen or some action movie like ""Independence Day: Resurgence"". Hollywood used to rely on people going to movies without knowing if it was good or not to earn back their money. Now that we have Rotten Tomatoes which gauges critic and user reaction and easy access to rent movies that used to be in theaters; Hollywood should have incentive to make better movies but they still make 80% shit, especially considering that streaming movies does not make a movie studio a lot of money then when it's in theaters. Movie theater operators are shaking in their boots because of the threat that the digital age poses.. ""Why go to a theater and waste money on crap when you can wait for it at home?"" MoviePass is quite possibly the movie theater chain's only hope at remaining relevant. I still feel like I'm able to watch a movie in a comfy environment with unique experiences in a theater and I feel like the theater is the only place where the audience is engaged and interacting with each other. It would be a shame to lose that in exchange for movie watching where it's all done solo. It's okay but it's not as fun as a theater experience. MoviePass offers the best concessions for the best deals. I don't mind having to pay near the theater and I don't mind that my data is being given to analytic companies; Hollywood needs to know that I and others like so and so and that data I'm hoping can be used to make better movies. The thing that'll hinder MoviePass' chances of success is some holdouts. AMC isn't holding out because they think it'll do harm to their business; far from it.. Their ticket prices are $12 for a regular film, similar to all the other chains and they make alot of money from overpriced concessions anyway. (with the exception of the fancy food they're adding in their theaters) AMC's intention is to create a more expensive subscription service for the sole reason of hoarding most of the profit; MoviePass is good in that the data can be used to improve movies, AMC is bad in that it's going to be no different than MoviePass with the exception of some perks relating to food and seating. If they could do something and add IMAX and 3D as upgrades to the subscription service then it won't be as bad as it seems (maybe even convince MoviePass to do the same) but AMC's move is solely profit based and not in any way a reaction to possible harm. I found out my theater is supported by MoviePass so I'll gladly pay the $10 to see what the hype is all about. In a world where fragmented streaming services don't allow me to get the movies easily after they're in theaters and Hollywood movies are getting worse; this might be the answer Hollywood needs."