">> reducing regulation > You do know that monopolies and mega corporations are bad for consumers Reducing regulations is FIRST(!) to help small business, because only big companies can handle regulations. Please study economics first. >> killing the PTT > Debatable at best. Really? The TPP is still alive and will be voted and accepted by the USA under Trump? Yes or no? >>killing NAFTA > See above. Really? Does president Trump support NAFTA, yes or no? Does he act against NAFTA, yes or no? Do you honestly think that NAFTA will continue unchanged under Trump, yes or no? **Best question, is NAFTA, signed by Clintons, a good thing, yes or no?** >>reducing immigration > Well, there's actually pretty strong evidence that increased immigration has a net positive impact on an economy. Absolutely not. Legal immigration of qualified people is Ok, but they take jobs from Americans who are as qualified as them. Trump is not against immigration!! He's against illegal aliens who are criminals, uneducated, religious crazies, etc. There's zero benefit to the USA and economy from those people. >> investing in infrastructure > I guess this depends on the type.. Does Trump invest in infrastructure and has big plans to invest in it? Yes or no. No stories please. >> pulling out from wars (Syria) > When was the last time bombing a foreign country was used as a strategy for pulling out of a war? Under Obama, 8 years, constant war with MORE countries and places. Yes or no? Under Trump, he killed the CIA ""program"" to ""support the ""rebels"" against Assad"". Read about it, but not on fake-news MSM channels, where you won't find it. Under Obama, the war in Syria and the disastrous ""Arab Spring"" started ONLY BECAUSE the USA did not support the strong leaders tyrant Arabs have. Arabs are not ready for democracy. In the case of Syria, which I am extremely familiar with, under Assad and his father, Christian, majority Sunni and even Jews and Druze were safe and the Assad(s) did not hurt them. Assad is in power because he's part of the 20% minority Alawites (most secular Muslims you can find) which the majority Muslim Sunnis (the craziest of the Muslims) want to kill. So, instead of support Assad, the USA actively supported the ""rebels"" who are far worse than the Alawites. And I don't want to discuss ISIS with you which is only because of the actions of the USA."