"Hi, I'm not sure what you're looking for, but I'll assume you are just looking for some distinguishing characteristics of an infra deal. Infra deals are typically: - Project financed meaning that a Special Purpose Company (SPC) is established to build and operate the asset. Project finance means that the SPC is quarantined from any party and is backed by the cashflows of the project and not by the balance sheet of some parent entity - The SPC's cashflows are backed by a lengthy concession agreement (e.g. a government body provides a concession to a private party to operate the infrastructure asset for *say* 30 years). The concession agreement can best be thought of as a form of guarantee provided by the government body. The exact terms of the agreement will vary but something like ""you can operate this toll road for 30 years and charge $x per vehicle, indexed at y% p.a."" should give you the idea of what a concession agreement is. - Because the concession agreement acts a bit like a guarantee over the cashflows of the SPC it makes longer term and higher leveraged financing more plausible. Imagine a national tollroad asset where the AAA-credit rated government body guaranteed 20m cars a year for 30 years with a $5 toll charge. Your tollroad SPC now has $100m of cashflow every year for 30 years which is AAA-credit rated. This should enable you to get competitively priced long term capital and to gear the SPC at much higher rates than non-infra deals. - At the end of the concession period the SPC hands the asset back to the government completely unencumbered (debt-free) So in a nutshell, a government body grants a concession to a SPC that guarantees its cashflows over a long term. The SPC is then financed based purely on this guarantee. The SPC then Builds the asset, Operates it and then at the end of the concession period Transfers it back to the government (google Build-Operate-Transfer or BOT for more detail if curious). There are plenty of other distinguishing characteristics and a truck-load of detail that I have completely skipped/ignored so others may want to jump-in/ridicule me. Good luck with your interview. edit: formatting"