"To dispute your first point. It can be racist if it's the truth. The accuracy of a statement doesn't impact it's cruelty. If you were over weight and I called you a fat fuck, it may well be true, though it's still mean. In the same way if your mother was dying of cancer and I was to say "" she is a cancerous weight on our social structures, and she's not likely to live long anyway "" all of those things may be factually correct, however it is still malicious for me to say those things in that way. Similarly even if what he says is factually correct(which is an issue I'll get to) does not change whether what he said and the way he said it was malicious (or hurtful) to a particular race. Now whether what he said is socially acceptable is a matter of culture, you seem to think it's perfectly acceptable, as another said, many of his business connections might also. I happen to think it's not acceptable , clearly in line with op. I'm not looking to argue about whether it is acceptable to ever be racist because that is a nuanced line (though fairly simple to keep away from) that has been covered over and over in many other discussions arguments and protests. To the matter of whether or not what he has said is factually correct. I agree with you on this: Zimbabwe is incredibly rich in resource and is a largely untapped land in the modern world(though seemingly not for long). However I would make the distinction in my argument in the causality. Is it the fault of the Zimbabwe people that they have not fully taken advantage of their resource. And if so is that fault in anyway linked to their skin colour. For me even if you conceed the first, the 2nd is untenable. clearly seen in the rise of Asia and of India through the 20th &21st century, education medicine ,social support and infrastructure play a much larger role in the ability of a society to effectively allocate resource , than the vain colour of ones skin or the line of ones heritage. Not to say the first is entirely true either, as the mistakes of yours forbearers weigh on your ability as much as their success accelerates you . There are key resources, and educations the places such as Zimbabwe lacked, the made them unable to use resource historically in the same way as the modern western world (water hygiene, tool making resource, most notably land able to support intensive farming, and food storage. ) . Instead the cultures would have developed to use the land resources as is most efficient, though may not nessisarily be the centralised cities and farming of Europe. Further I would argue education and infrastructure, as was seen originally with the foundation of the us the America's resource was untapped without the machinery or knowledge to take advantage of it, which debatably comes best from the close quarters of Europe. Writing also, improving the transfer of information by orders of magnitude , first created in the middle East, taken up by the Greeks, then the Romans . Therefore much of Europe's success (amount other thing s) can be credited to to Romans, and theirs to the Greeks, and theirs to the Persians . Clearly the Persians , nor even the Romans were ""white "" by any pure standard. (Especially noting England's boom occurred after introduction of Roman infrastructure, and more recently Asia with western international corporation's) I would argue that the size of a society and it's economic success (which may not nessisarily be the aim of the society) has more to do with the tools available, the location and access to trade, infrastructure and social support (including medicine). These are things that are not inextricably linked to the colour of ones skin. Therefore to say that ""blacks"" by virtue of being black, lacking any other qualifying information, are inherently less able to bring America into economic success than ""whites"" by virtue of them being white, lacking any qualifying information, is not entirely factually correct and is naturally open to criticism. By changing you argument to be less directed at the colour of ones skin, and more toward the nature of the society and the capabilities of their technology your argument is made more tolerable (though still entirely open to critisism). But as soon as you change your argument to ""I'm glad that people capiable of colonising America and bringing to to success did, instead of people weren't able to colonise America and bring technology with them "" the argument becomes somewhat null. Of course a society, whether black white or any other, with advanced technology and access to trade (such as Brittan who had control of many trade lines and much of Indian production) would be able to colonise and take advantage of resources better than a society which did not have those things (control of large trade routes , ships ect). And these things have less to do with the colour on ones skin, and more to do with infrastructure, trade and social support. The fact is when the racism is taken out, the argument isn't worth mentioning, because the ability to colonise speaks to a society that takes effective advantage of trade infrastructure and technology. This fact is distasteful and makes any attempt to justify the argument seem a thinly veiled justification for rasicim. as, if not to be racist what is the argument actually a arguing; what does his statement actually say without specifying the colour of ones skin? So to recap, I'm not entirely against the line of thought , nor that the guy said it(if he gets in the good books of his friends / shug). What I am against is a society that supports racism, the society he is supporting in making that type of statement. What I am against is the idea that if something is *True* it doesn't matter *How* it's said. (Remember your fat ass mom) I'm what I am against is the use of null arguments to justify a controversial opinion. (If the controversial aspect of the sentence is able to be taken away and it was, would it have any meaning?) Sorry if I was overly aggressive in this response, and for any grammatical mistakes, and if you have a response I would appreciate a similar amount of effort , and will do my best to subdue my bias. Thank you . Edit: grammar"