Maybe if it required immense talent or skill it would. All you really need to do is be able to handle people for several hours a day, which is a prerequisite to any job. Instead you get a bunch of salty, usually snotty individuals with zero marketable skills who couldn't get a job elsewhere or are lazy and know they can slack off like shit and not get fired working there. My best friend and roommate was one of those people and he worked there a year and barely got the minimum raises. Everyday he bitched about how dumb everyone he worked with was despite the fact he's one of the dumbest people I know. He thought the world owed him something and he didn't care how he got it. That was about 60% of the people there that I knew. On the other hand, the other 40% of people I knew working there were still young kids, but didn't think every person with a somewhat dumb question was an idiot. They showed up on time, got their work done, and were pleasant to be around despite having a shitty job. They were the same age and from the same background as my friend, but they didn't come to work with a chip on their shoulder. After several months most of them had been promoted to higher positions or even assistant managers, they were making considerably more money and had more responsibility. They could not be replaced the next day by someone with no training or experience and were worth even more to the company than their time a dozen former peers who acted like assholes. If you let your starting salary or position dictate your attitude toward a job, you're never going to get anywhere in life. The world doesn't owe a huge salary and benefits. I'm hardly arguing for big companies that can and do treat employees badly, but having seen what that sometimes consists of, I don't tend to get my panties in a bunch over it anymore. I've worked my fair share of shit jobs in the beating sun and sweltering heat for shit money, and I didn't treat people like shit because of it. Hell I actually really enjoyed one of them. The difference is I never thought the world owed me something because two people had the idea to fuck one night.