Youre assuming that GDP shows the amount of wealth created and is an indicator of the standard of living, but it is not. Govt spending adds to gdp but takes away from the productive capabiliies of the private sector, which is the part of the economy that is making things that people want and need. The govt can spend 1 trillion on building a monument to obama, and that would increase gdp by 1 trillion, but no wealth is created and the govt jut shift a trillion of tax revenues to the workers who built the monument. If a company spends 1 trillion building building some new gadget, then the people who spend money to buy i have something to show for it and the workers have their wages as well. So now the company makes back 1.2 trillion and the consumers have their gadget, ie real wealth has been created. The wealthy may be sittin on hoards of cash, but its not just sitting under their mattress. Its spread out between investments and savings. Savings is neccessary to build up productive capabilities. The money the rich have sitting in banks is being used to help other businesses grow, not just collecting dust. I wish it were as simple as giving every poor person 10 grand and watching the economy take off, remember when bush gave everyone a 1000 tax refund? It sure was fun blowing that on a ps3, i cant argue with that. But prosperity can not be printed, it must be earned through hard work and productive activity. What we need is not monetary stimulus, we need the govt to stop destimulating the private sector with burdensome regulations and taxes. We need lower barriers to entry so we maximize competition in every industry. We need the govt spending less, and pushing more workers into the private sector, making things that american can get some utility from. Its not going to be a smooth ride getting there, there will be lots of lay offs in the short run as the economy restructures. But if the govt got out of the way and let the free market prosper, our society would be far better off in the future