"The lottery is not a scam. It really does what it says it does, the odds are just tremendously not in your favor. MLMs promise a business opportunity where there isn't one and the only real money comes from signing up new people. I've been dragged to a number of these things. The last one was maybe ten years ago, it was a ACN meeting at a co-worker's house. The invitation was vague, a number of other co-workers were going, and there was free food. I immediately knew what it was when they started the presentation. I listened as they went on about the untold riches and working for yourself and all of the usual crap. Then they told us that we could ask questions. Anything we wanted. Well, OK. Thing is, they don't get many people showing up to these things who are both lawyers and accountants. Like me. I started asking for financial documents, tax returns, verified audits, the form of the contract between ACN and you, and a few federal regulations. That did not go over so well. I pointed out that it was all standard due diligence. I added that I would be happy to sign a non-disclosure agreement before showing me the books. As you might guess, they didn't have any real answers and the guy doing the presentation looked like he wanted to punch me in the face. Nobody signed up. If you end up in at one of these meetings, start asking questions about the books. You want to see them. You want to see tax returns. You want to see audits from CPA firms. Offer to sign a non-disclosure agreement. These are all very normal things in the business world. Say you had a factory that makes widgets and you decide to sell the factory for $100,000. I'm an interested buyer. I would ask to see your books, returns and a statement from your CPA verifying these things. A non-disclosure agreement is common and totally fair. That way, I could verify the financials. If someone wants you to sign up for a MLM, ask to see the books. You'll shut it down almost immediately. If they get upset, use the phrase ""due diligence"" and say that it is standard business procedure. Because it is."