>No, it has the intellectual rigor of saying that if you want to claim something then you have to prove it, not parrot some propaganda that has been repeated endlessly without any proof. 'where's my proof? where's my proof?' You're the one arguing for a change away from the status quo here, to something that not only is entirely untested but *requires everyone to do it at once* AND *everyone to think just like you do* for it to 'work properly'. It's nothing but hypotheticals, yet you're saying the burden of proof is on me to 'prove' that *your* hypothetical scenarios won't work? That's not a thing you can do, you can't prove a negative. All i can do is say look around at all the free markets and stateless populations we have now living in perfect harmony with each other and the environment. Oh wait. They don't exist. Because they don't work in the real world. Any advantage is going to be used to bludgeon the competition with until you have a monopoly/quasi-state, and it relies on the population being informed in and believing in the system enough to make a conscious effort to not buy the cheaper goods at the store with the bad business practices, or potentially drive further to a different store if it's the store doing the bad practice! >Royal charter. Free market. You can only have one. So you're saying there can never be a truly free market then? Because it strikes me that companies trading without regulatory oversight (as the British, Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish etc.) did is pretty much as close as we can get. They made huge, huge profits of course, but at the cost of a lot of human misery. In fact you can look at a lot of what the British did in the 19th century as semi-case studies for this as they had a proper hard on for the 'free market'. No government bailout for the famine in Ireland because they didn't want to 'Foster dependency on the state', let private charities do it instead (look it up, people donated but not anywhere near enough to alleviate the human misery - it also got all caught up in religious bullshit which didn't help matters). You had little kids getting their arms ripped off by textile looms for fucks sake, people working 14 hour days. But it made more money than working in the fields, so #worth, right? >In what way? People don't suddenly cease to have resources to deal with these things just because their resources are not forcibly centralized. That doesn't follow. Because the pooling of vast resources for disaster relief is something that states do? Because there are efficiencies of scale to be had with the Military? The US Military was a huge player in the disaster response to disasters like the boxing day tsunami and hurricane katrina. You have NGOs like MERLIN and the Red Cross doing great work- and very quickly, but they just [can't provide the same resources a modern navy can in the same time frame](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Unified_Assistance). It turns out you face a lot of the same problems in a modern battlefield as you do in a humanitarian crisis. Again, charities just don't get the funding to do this sort of thing on the same scale. There was a huge amount of funding dropped on the 2004 tsunami from many countries, but you can't build a hospital ship in two weeks, or a nuclear reactor to provide monumental amounts of fresh water, or the helicopters and operational procedures to tie everything together. Many thousands more would have died without their presence. >what evidence or reason you have to believe that hundreds of millions of people would have died in a century without governments. This is my point, neither you nor I have any evidence to base this off rather than a tendency for people to be utter bastards to each other, looking at history. You're postulating that if all governments dissipated in a puff of smoke, there *wouldn't* be huge conflict in the resulting power vacuum? >“Anarchists did not try to carry out genocide.. Yeah, good one. There weren't any Anarchists in a position to do any of that. Great straw man. and that statement by Higgs is just that - a statement. WHY is the burden of proof on the 'statists'? It's the Anarchists who are arguing for the change in the status Quo. You're the one making the claim that it would be a better system here with nothing to back it up but 'well people probably wouldn't start murdering each other', pretty low bar there tbh. But if you want reasoning, see my previous point - if it's such a better system, if people won't exploit every advantage they can get and distort the free market, if people wouldn't try and subvert the system for their own personal gain - why do we have states right now? Would any Anarchist 'state' (region?) not have simply outperformed neighbours if it's so much more efficient?