"Anyone that currently owns a business of any size is a slave to pretty much anyone else. We are told who to hire, how much to pay, how much of the profits we must give to ""pay our fair share"", who we must serve and by what measure of quality, what prices we may charge (in many cases) and so on. What you and people like you do not get is that those of us that enjoy starting businesses have lost our taste for it. We're sick of working twice as hard as our employees and then being told we don't ""give back"" enough. I would NEVER not hire or serve someone on the basis of their color, religion, sexuality, and so forth. Why? Because finding great people is hard enough, why reduce the potential population further with biotry and silliness. BUT, I would also never hire a person BECAUSE of those things. I don't care if you're black and feel like you're entitled to special consideration because your great-great-great-great grandfather was enslaved. A) I don't care. B) I had nothing to do with it. C) You're not entitled to squat unless you've earned it. Ditto Native Americans, women, homosexuals, people that are overweight, or any one of a dozen other manufactured excuses for not being willing to be measured by - as per MLK - the content of your character, not the color of your skin (or whatever). In the mean time I have been on strike. I am not starting another business or hiring another person until this nonsense gets put under control. I made that committment the day the Worst President In My Lifetime - Mr Hoax And Shame - got elected. Guess what? There are lots of people like me and you're not going to see an improving unemployment picture until you quit squeezing us with this PC, feel good stupidity. And you know what? If you do end the EEOC lunacy, what will happen? People of all flavors who are persons of character and ability will flourish and the low life white trash, black ghetto scum, drug addict losers that support the ideological left will .. starve. And that's just fine with me so long as they do not block traffic."