"While I agree with the overarching narrative regarding the car industry, self driving cars, and how people will use transportation in the future, I deeply disagree with his timeframe and reject that his clearly large city centric thinking will effect all parts of the country and all parts of the world. There is no way this happens as quickly as he says it will for the following reasons: On his claim that electric cars will be all anyone will buy: 1. We lack the road or electrical grid infrastructure to support tens of millions of electric vehicles throughout the US, this will take far more than just 5-10 years, especially in the more rural parts of the country. 2. We lack the production capacity to create the batteries for 17 million of yearly sales of automobiles for the few years between 2021-2025 when everyone is presumably just buying only electric self driving cars. 3. The used market for combustion engine cars will ""tank"" so strongly that it will actually create demand for people to buy combustion cars, as the costs will now outweigh the savings of buying a new car with lower running costs, thus pushing his timeline out into the future by several years. 4. Cars, even electric cars, are much more complicated, durable, expensive, and prone to damage and accidents than most software and disposable consumer electronics he cites in his examples. Of course Nokia went from 50% of the market to 5% over one product cycle! People completely replaced their phones every 2-3 years back then! Wireless carriers built a system where even if your phone worked, you had little to no reason not to lock in another contract and get the next best phone. Of course people would dump their Nokia bricks for an iPhone, it was the next best thing. Cars have a much longer life cycle, and inefficient older models will be around for decades in some cases because they will be a sunk cost for those who bought them. On his claim that no one will own a car anymore and everyone will ride share: 1. How does one decide to take a road trip somewhere? What about people who travel for a living or as an integral part of doing their job? 2. I personally think a ride sharing transportation network represents a limiting of freedom. (Though I can see why people might make the opposite point) People identify with owning their own cars, keeping their own belongings in them, having them for use whenever they so need or desire. People who don't live in dense urban cores (I.e, a huge group of Americans, and especially a huge group of Americans who are older, have money, and are set in their ways.) aren't going to see this as nearly as attractive as someone who lives in New York or San Fransisco might, and those people hardly buy cars anyway. 3. People are fucking stubborn. It's going to take a lot for people to decide to change up such an integral part of their daily lives. This will not happen over a 3-4 year cycle. 4. Where is the infrastructure to park, charge, and perform maintenance on all these autonomous vehicles? We will need more cars available during rush hour than at 3pm or 3am for that matter. Where do the cars go then? 5. This simply won't work quickly in countries outside the very top of the first world. They won't have the infrastructure or capital to invest to bring it up to speed fast enough to derail oil demand as quickly as he claims. 5. This theory implies a central government that is in complete control to implement rules in support of autonomous cars. I believe most of this will be done at the state and municipality level at first, with some cities hopping on board and others banning the practice. 6. This theory also implies that the technology will be flawless. The first completely computer aided pedestrian disaster or multi car pile up will undoubtedly cause massive backlash (regardless of the statistics showing general reduction in accidents) and might clog this entire concept up in bureaucracy for decades as the government forces stricter and stricter safety and quality requirements on the software. I'm not saying his view isn't the long run eventually for mobility in the US and the world in general, but applying personal electronic technology cycle rules to large scale durable goods that work in real space instead of cyber space, represents a whole different set of challenges and could easily take 25-50 years to really pull off. Over that time, oil markets will right size themselves, and the automotive manufacturers will consolidate and cater their product lineups to meet demand/service the fleet. TL:DR - this will take much longer to accomplish than he surmises. Infrastructure takes time to build, cars are a different technology than consumer electronics, people are stubborn."