I hope there's so much wrong with what I wrote, I do. Thank you for correcting me. For argument's sake, my following responses will assume that you are talking about the US market. Almost any other kind of argument would take too long to elaborate or expand upon. In North America, the rules of Capitalism *are* somewhat ironclad, are they not? Did Americans have a debate over whether or not workers even have the right to strike, or collectively bargain, last year? Aside from that, I am aware hat other US companies do in fact offer much better benefits than others. Target, for example, offers much better healthcare insurance than Walmart does. This is among one of many boons that Target offers to its employees. It can be argued that Target treats its employees much better than Walmart, including its part-time employees. Why, therefore, is Target not much more popular than Walmart? My answer would be that the average consumer does not care about much except lower prices, and those consumers that do, do not shop at Walmart, which is still the most popular supermarket chain in the US. The consumers who do shop at a different or more expensive chain are therefore in the minority, whether because of morals or lack of choice. Corporations are amoral. They exist solely to make a profit, and nothing else. Compassion does not come into it. Higher standards are, and will expand, if there is consumer interest in them doing so. Outsourcing definitely applies here. You've seen the self-checkout facilities available at most stores? When there is a way of scanning every product a person has on them before they exit the store as well as a way of preventing them from exiting the store before they've paid for those goods, you can bet anything on almost every cashier in America being fired from the stores that can afford it. We are very, very close to that, in terms of technology alone, let alone deployment. The US cannot afford to impose tariffs, unfortunately. With every anti-competitive tariff it imposes, exports and imports go down in the billions of dollar ranges. It is not a coincidence that the Eurozone countries who have led the way in tariffs are those you names in your post. In the age of globalisation, everyone can simply go..somewhere else for their needs. The same unfortunately goes for taxes, import premiums, or anything else that you care to name. I agree with you that fighting for labour rights across the world is the only effective answer to that. But that will of course never happen. When labour rights issues erupt in the country that the majority of the world's manufacturing happens, most corporations will simply stick with it until their position becomes untenable, and then they will move to a different country, where labour laws are not as as strong. China is this generation's manufacturing bitch, who will be next? Because companies are worrying about this already.They are looking at shithole places in India, and places in Brazil, and places in Ghana, or Indonesia, or anywhere else that can be persuaded to educate a proportion of its workforce to the minimum necessary levels. It's sad but, remember that if any thought is applied to this, the people who make the things that Chinese/Indian/Ghanan/Indonesian make for pennies on the dollar is that those people's wages will eventually rise enough that there can be a middle-class, at which point the companies involved simply move on to a country that does not have a middle-class or a higher-working class. Forever. That's..the multinational plan. Capitalism, remember, is a system based on unlimited expansion. It just is. No arguing round that one. And finally, 'fiscally sensible' means, to me, that a country retreats from the goddamn cliff it's on when it sees that if it carries on this way, it's truly, amazingly fucked. The debt ceiling fiasco earlier nearly plunged the world economy into recession, in spite of the fact that it should have been a done deal, something nobody anywhere got their tits up about. But no. Politicians literally ransomed it for things that they wanted that were kinda contrary to the interests of the US economy at large, and therefore the fucking WORLD economy at large. If the US had defaulted, it would have fairly literally fucked to rest of us. And I mean the other 670,000,000,000 people alive right now. All coz your Republicans didn't like a black guy. What? Barack Obama does things by pretty classical Keynesian economics. By following those tenets, the whole goddamn world enjoyed a period of uninterrupted growth and prosperity from 1948 to about 1970, depending on where you are. Talk to me all you like about Europe's destroyed industry from WW2 but the simple fact is that the maxim of 'save during booms' and 'spend during busts' created more jobs and helped more economies that you can name. Thanks to political expediency, however, and apparently Reagan, the US at large seems to believe that anything even approaching left-wing politics (and for the purposes of this argument that includes healthcare and, y'know, not caring what or who a woman puts up their vagina) is anathema. It simply isn't accepted, and decried as 'socialism' by any opponents. These arguments and these debates literally don't make any fucking sense to the rest of us. Not even a little bit. Abortion, gay marriage, legalizing marijuana, *NOT* invading other countries. These issues are settled for the vast, vast majority of us. It's fucking insane to us that they aren't for you. In fairness it is, however, because of your politics that you can't do any of these things. You are a nation of three hundred and fifteen million. It can't be expected of you that you have a consensus on these issues. But what gets us is that you never fucking try. We have the European Parliament, imperfect though it may be. It still gives us a voice in issues as basic as gay marriage or abortion. We aren't in permanent deadlock over things as unimportant as this. I don't mean to paint Europe or anywhere else as some kind of paradise. Just that companies in Europe seem to just not care; companies in the US seem to be out to try and actively fuck you. Quick edit: holy shit that was a long reply, don't bother reading it. TL;DR: Companies don't give a shit if they fuck you or not unless market conditions