">According to the article, I think the operative word is ""train,"" not ""push."" Or ""gain job experience"". >Another thing that I did not see this article address is that there really is no loyalty within companies any more. Companies view people as a commodity (but yet don't believe in the free market principle surrounding a commodity), instead of treating people as a resource. **Hence people are ready to walk away when they spot a better opportunity.** People shouldn't be viewed as *either* a ""resource"" (to be exploited) or as a ""commodity"" (to be sourced/discarded) -- rather any *intelligent and KNOWLEDGABLE manager* (basically meaning NOT an academically trained MBA type) will realize that he is building a TEAM, and that people ARE the business -- no factory, however ""automated"" will EVER run itself without at least SOME highly skilled people who know how the whole operation works (and where it *doesn't work* and needs watching/tweaking); and even more so with other businesses. Systematizing things is great, documenting processes is good, but none of those things can replace a solid person who knows the operation. And, I have always LOL'ed at the irony of companies who want to ""hire from their competitors"" -- but then somehow believe that their competitors aren't going to do the same to them (and even want to cry ""foul"" when it does happen). The idiocy.. it's palpable. --- Likewise, as the author/speaker identifies with the ""applicant screening software"" built on top of what at least used to be called an ""expert system"" -- this reveals that crafting such a system is a LOT more difficult than many imagine (and the error is really in the ""requirements"" and specification than merely the programming), and that rather than an ""expert"" system, what you are more likely to end up with is an ""idiocy system"" that creates an even worse problem. So anyone claiming a ""skills gap"" and that they cannot find good people (especially in THIS economy) -- is just proving themselves to be a prime example of a failure of management."