"The FSA, in contrast to the HSA, is not an ""account"" that you put money in. FSA stands for ""Flexible Spending Arrangement,"" not ""Account."" Technically, it is a defined-benefit plan. Here is the difference: With an account such as an HSA, you put money into the account, and you get that same money out. You can't take money out unless you first put money in. The FSA doesn't work that way. Instead, you pick an annual amount that your FSA will cover, and work out a monthly fee to pay for it. For example, you might decide on a $1800 FSA, which will cost you $150 per month. However, the $150 you pay each month does not go into an account for you; instead, it goes to your employer, who is managing the plan. Let's say that in January, at the beginning of the plan year, you have a large medical expense of $1000. You've only had $150 taken out of your paycheck so far this year, but you are covered for $1800, so you get reimbursed the full $1000. This is referred to as ""uniform coverage"", meaning that you get the full $1800 of coverage on day 1 of the year. Now let's say that you leave your job in March. You've only paid $450, and you've received $1000 in benefit. You do not owe your employer the rest of the money; your employer eats this cost. This is the trade-off that the FSA offers over other types of accounts: depending on an employee's circumstances, an employer might make money (use-it-or-lose-it) or might lose money (uniform coverage) on an individual employee. The idea behind the use-it-or-lose-it provision of the FSA is to help the employer pay for the uniform coverage provision. The details behind the FSA (and other types of health plans) are outlined in IRS Publication 969. I'm sure that a secondary reason behind the use-it-or-lose-it provision is that it encourages an employee to keep his FSA plan small, so he can use it all up and not have to lose too much of it at the end of the year. And a smaller FSA contribution means more tax money for the government. To address your point that it shouldn't be this way: I'm personally not a fan of the FSA because of the use-it-or-lose-it provision. But participation is voluntary, for both employers and employees. You proposed an alternative set of rules for the FSA, but you are basically describing an HSA, in which you cannot spend more than you have, and you get to keep whatever is left over. The recent rules changes that allow plans to feature a grace period or a small carryover balance were an attempt to make the FSA a little more attractive/useful, but if you want the ability to keep your money and not have to spend it at all, use an HSA instead."