">> I propose to make the requirements for finish high school and college degrees much much higher, as it was in the past. > Not gonna happen. Totally agree with you! What I was proposing is what SHOULD be done. > waiting for disadvantaged kids to get higher scores will not happen until they get accepted into college. Even then! Almost all disadvantaged kids, smart or not smart, the diploma they get is almost worthless. The diploma will not give them much advantage or improve their situation. The diploma barely even helps very smart kids from rich advantaged homes. Actually, if in the past, no matter who you knew, no matter your family background, a diploma will almost always GUARANTEE a secure and advantaged life. > If you force schools to gain their income from future students earnings they will have high concern for kids that have a good P/E ratio. It will also stop the loan industry from putting these kids into debt. In theory, you are correct. In practice, many many problems to implement. For starters, this makes college a very risky business because it's very hard to predict future income of its students, even the very smart and accomplished students. And I will give you a related example: colleges teach Computer Science (Programming) to many kids today, but the profession is about to die due AI and automation + outsourcing. This was unexpected 1-2 years ago. Barely economists can predict the economy, so you want colleges to predict income based on what is taught? > The downside is that it may turn colleges into trade techs, Actually, colleges are already trade techs because, today, almost all students study just(!) for the hope to get a job. In the past, you studied to become a scholar and wise, and then pick some kind of a job of your interest where being generally smart and knowledgeable is needed. BOTTOM LINE: Since you and I know that nothing will be done, no higher standards and no future-income based tuition, here's what what's happening with my son, which is what happened with me, which is still happening in Germany. No, I am not German, but I come from a German culture - my parents are of German descent, but I was born and raised in Israel. It's called ""Master and Apprentice"". I have been working since I was 13, with computers, and if you consider my age (55), when I was 13, no PCs with internet, and only punch cards were used to access a computer. My parents did not push me.. it was me who felt the need to work, while I was studying (just like my father had that need when he was young). My son, 13 today, but since he was 10, the apple does not fall far from the tree, found work (he's not even allowed to work by law) and is making money. He's right now teaching, administering and designing Minecraft ""worlds"" and applications. **Hands on experience, especially taught from a Master is better than any Diploma!!** He will probably go to some so-so college to get a piece of paper called ""Diploma"" WHILE he will continue working in whatever he's interested. He will be successful like I am (not trying to brag). I never pushed him, but I explained to you some realities of the world. LAST WORD: actually, most Masters, real Masters, are desperate to teach, for free, their knowledge, vision and know. And the system does not allow them to do that, to protect the colleges and universities. Only in Medicine, it's still happens. Think about it!!!"