"One wonders where the author thinks the monies for the generous Boomer pension payouts will come from? And of course they utterly ignore the fact that things like 401k's and IRA's *require* that a person begin divesting (at a progressive rate) after one hits age 70-1/2. Yes, post retirement fund sales (minus the taxes on the proceeds of course, which taxes are not to be ignored) these people COULD turn the entire remainder of those monies back around and then re-invest them back into the stock market as (non tax-deferred) retail stock purchasers .. but that is pretty unlikely to happen. In addition, the Boomers as a generation have become accustomed to a far higher lifestyle (newer cars, larger & fancier homes, more vacations, etc) than the previous generation(s), and so -- just as with many other things where Boomers ""broke the mold"" -- relying the the data from those generations as an economic model of how much wealth retirees tend to ""cash in"" and how they spend (versus what they ""sit on"" and hoard for their heirs) may be rather foolish. (Somewhat akin to building an economic model on 20 years of data that proclaimed ""Americans don't default on their mortgages"".. yeah that turned out to NOT be very wise.) And then finally, I wonder if this author really comprehends the meaning of the phrase ""at the margin""; after all *everyone* in a neighborhood doesn't have to default on their mortgage to drive house prices down, in fact all it takes is a lack of BUYERS and prices cannot be sustained. So, the problem with the Boomer ""en masse"" retirement is not JUST the possibility that they will ""all sell everything at the same time""; but rather that the ""demographic bulge"" will at a certain tipping point, change from buyer-hoarders, to divester-sellers, and that inevitably WILL have a major affect on the float and thus the prices of stocks.. and just as inevitably, at some stage of that change, herd behavior (even *panicked* herd behavior) will take over. It really doesn't take much to drive a stock down.. nor even an entire stock market. (If the authors' wisdom were true, would we EVER have had any stock market crashes in the first place?)"