"Geez man you're cutting it close to the end of the semester to be at the research stage of your project. I normally frown on posts that say ""LOL DO MY PROJECT FOR ME"" but i know a bit about this subject and want to share. I'm going to focus mostly on the B2B segment here because that's what I know. Many companies aren't spending as much as they used to on IT products or the staff to support them. They're also looking for ways to be more productive with their budgets. The consumer market is spending a lot less and is demanding products that Dell can't make as much money on. The big things right now are The cloud, virtualization and miniaturization. So, right now ""The Cloud"" is the buzzword. Lots of companies are moving their stuff offsite, letting someone else worry about major IT infrastructure. This typically costs the company less in both hardware and personnel costs. Companies still need a onsite presence for critical applications, data and backup but they need a lot less than what was necessary 5 years ago. Network backbones have grown in scale and many metropolitan areas can now support this type of computing. You also have virtualization which means you can run multiple ""servers"" on one physical server. What used to take up an entire rack years ago can now be run on a few servers. This means companies need less of the IT equipment Dell makes in order to grow and expand. All that means less of a demand for traditional IT equipment (computers and servers) and more of a demand for the proper software. I see Dell moving more towards personal devices and larger enterprise equipment & servers. Personal devices include tablets, laptops/netbooks, phones, compact PCs. The business side includes high density servers, storage, software and services. The miniaturization of computer hardware along with the cloud will allow users to access their ""desktop"" and programs from anywhere and Dell will be providing products to access the cloud. Servers will have terabytes of memory and a large number of cores. (systems with terabytes of memory already exist but the cost is prohibitive for most companies). These systems will be used to support a business' needs through virtualization or provide users with the cloud. Dell has acquired a few software companies over the years and will most likely acquire more & may offer software for cloud computing, IT management and possibly (probably not) virtualization. Over the past few years the desktop PC market has been shrinking as netbooks and new devices have been released. They still have a long way to go but someday they will largely replace the PC in homes and businesses; especially as costs come down. Also, Dell may see lots more money from government and healthcare in the next few years. The government may choose to spend even more money than they do now on infrastructure and projects to help get us out of the recession. Those projects will need IT resources. Same goes for healthcare, as the new healthcare laws go into effect they will need more IT resources to get the job done. source: me, I've worked in the IT industry for the past 9 years. The majority of our business is with Dell products. If you need more details about me send me message. Also please don't just copy paste my information. I'm giving you some ideas. Go look them up, learn about them, research them. College is about learning and one of the points of this project is to expand your knowledge about a subject. tl;dr due to new technology, people and companies will be buying less, margins will be thinner, Dell will probably focus on new markets. edit: after going through some of your posts it seems like you are in the IT industry as well so I'm confused and you may already know most of this information."