I'm curious, so i'm going to calculate it for my area. I'm in an average priced metro and a 2 bedroom apartment out here is going to cost you at least $1400 (700 each with a roomie), and that's if you go ~45 minutes from downtown. it doesn't really drop off any more than that the further you go out. You'll also still need renters insurance, and to cover half the utilities. Lets tack on another $75 here, conservatively. At that far out, you need a car, and the insurance, gas, and maintenance costs that go with it. Assuming you go with something cheap, say $5k, with a payment around $120 a month. +$60 a month for insurance, another $60 for gas, and accruing $30 a month for maintenance. You're going to need a cell phone, and if you're on a plan alone it's not cheap with the big 4 providers, so you'll go with someone smaller for $50 a month, even though the service is mediocre. You'll need to eat, so being cheap and buying store brands and sale items, you get your groceries down to $120 a month. So that should cover the bottom level of Maslov's pyramid, which is far from glamorous. That puts your living costs at $1215 a month. Being that it is a major metro, minimum wage within the city is $9.30. Assuming you have a job that's 40 hours a week, that puts you at $1488 a month before taxes are withheld. Since you make so little, taxes would only be around $214 a month.That leaves $49 for saving/spending/emergencies. I live in a state that has very good support for the ACA as well, so the $300 credit roughly covers the cost of the monthly premium. The deductible is obviously still impossible to pay, but you don't get hit with the penalty at year end and the hospital still gets mostly paid, and you might just be able to avoid bankruptcy if the hospital is willing to negotiate the payment plan with you. So what are the conclusions here? It's possible to skate by for a short while, assuming you can live without any social life, stay healthy, and have no emergencies. You also need the self discipline of a Buddhist Monk, and to live in an area that supports a minimum wage relative to living costs and the ACA.