"> He's a marketer & speaker -- he learns just enough of the buzzwords & jargon to make it SOUND as if he knows what is going on.. but -- like many other similar people -- he really doesn't have a frigging clue. I think you would need to know the man pretty well before you could make that judgement. A lot of people that knew him better than you do seem to have reached a different conclusion. ""Understanding technology"" really isn't that a high a bar. It doesn't take much to get there. > Sony was working on ""color TV's"" yes.. but not anything related to what became the ""Trinitron"" -- that history is well documented (both in the patents that they licensed, and the people/teams & subsequent patents that they filed, as well as in various narrative histories from the people involved). Sony, along with everyone else, was working on different colour TV displays pretty much since the late 1940's. Sure, the final Trinitron design wasn't in place until the late 60's, but even Sculley with all his exaggerations doesn't describe his design or the patent that was issued just before he applied as the final Trinitron design, but rather a predecessor. > Jobs was bullshitter -- a very charismatic one no doubt -- but a bullshitter nonetheless. Sure, but he definitely understood the application of technology. > ROTFLMAO.. Riiiight.. that's why he promotes himself as a ""technology visionary"" speaker: >>In the Age of Smartphones, Smart Pads and Smart TVs, John Sculley is the Quintessential Smart Entrepreneur - A Compelling Public Speaker on Innovation in Global Business and Technology That's someone else describing him, and at best that person is describing him as someone who really knows innovation (which is NOT the same as technology). Honestly, the first part (I'm trying to imagine how he could be the quintessential of *any* kind of entrepreneur) is more off than the last part (which you could even imagine applying to a historian/anthropologist who had studied innovation in business & tech)."