"Using your Uber vs. Medallion taxi driver as an example.. The problem in the sharing economy is an individual -- working as an independent contractor -- takes on all the risk and reaps diminishing rewards while the profit of the company to which the individual is contracted increases significantly. Case in point with Uber: Let's say you decide you want to drive for UberX. You lease a Prius, and thus are on the hook financially for $350/month + $100/month insurance + $300/month gas and other car expenses, and you'll have that for three years. That's a $750 nut. Your nut remains the same, but you have very little protection to ensure that your earnings are going to continue to come in, especially if you look at it long term. I am most familiar with the ridesharing market here in Seattle, and just in the last two years the number of ridesharing drivers (Uberx, Lyft, Sidecar) has exceeded an estimated 3,000. Sure, the customer base grows, but there is also a continuing influx of additional drivers competing for those ""fares."" With the medallion system, there is some level of protection to ensure that the industry remains viable for those who carry a medallion (I am not advocating completely for this system and realize that the complacency the government protection gave to the taxi industry led to customer service/quality issues.) So back to Uber..As Uber fights for market share, both capturing from the taxi industry but also competing against Lyft and people driving their own cars, they lower prices. In some cases these lower prices have been in the form of discounts, in some cases, lower fares. In Seattle, currently, the minimum fare for an UberX ride is $4. It was $6 a year ago. Uber takes a 20 percent cut from drivers, and also charges drivers $10 a week to use their service. If a driver makes $1000 a week in fares, they pull down $800 of that, after taxes, let's call it $600, so over the course of a month, you're looking at $2400, minus your nut (including phone rental) let's call it $1600 take home pay. These people aren't getting rich to begin with, and are at a huge risk for when Uber or Lyft or Task Rabbit or whoever decides to cut their prices again. These services are beyond great for the consumer, but are a temporary stopgap for anyone relying on them for work. The big problem here is that companies like Uber are advertising HEAVILY that you can make $30/hour on their service, enticing people to make investments in things like cars to drive with them, but at the end of the day, you're an independent contractor and Uber owes you nothing. I believe Uber (I single them out because I think Lyft is a little better at this) preys on the ignorance of potential drivers to lure them into the system."