Thanks for including a summary for lurkers in your comment. I didn't realize how quickly I was responding, and I did not know you edited. I appreciate you not letting me look ridiculous to browsers. To change course a little bit, I'd like to talk to the idea that if successful people deserve success, unsuccessful people must deserve their lot also. Outside of money, the biggest thing I think we will leave to our kids is what we have learned about money, nutrition, health, and social interaction. Nothing we know is secret knowledge, but at the same time these are fields that are not taught to competence in school, and plenty of hucksters advertise nonsense that make it difficult to quickly learn what makes sense. If you're a 25 year old guy making 35-40k, and you eat at subway because it is endorsed by the American heart association and you assume it's healthy, and you spend 30% of your pre tax income on a house because your mortgage broker said that's normal and your financial advisor said houses are assets, and you buy what you like on credit cards and pay monthly minimums, and you take out an auto lease or a 6 year loan on a purchase to keep payments low, and you diversify what little you have left into mutual funds and bonds, you are doing two things - you are acting like a totally responsible young adult according to societal norms and people who are supposed to give you advice, and you are totally fucking yourself. You are burdening yourself with debt, you aren't investing in yourself, you're neutering your money's ability to help you live a life you actually want to live, and you are shackling yourself to monthly payments that limit your ability to make choices about what you want and how you want to live. Is that your fault? You followed common wisdom and your trusted advisors. Unless you happen to see a different way, or someone comes along and tells you otherwise, you may never know what opportunities you could've had. I'll even concede that having the opportunity to think differently may be luck. But here is where I have a point of contention. What if you've concluded generational wealth is simply luck by the time you have someone try to show you differently? You may dismiss your opportunity as bullshit, and remained trapped in the standard American day to day wage/debt slavery. This is why I hate these semantics so much - I think they rob people of their opportunities.