> That there are more jobs today isn't a convincing argument. You yourself said that automation means there is a net loss in jobs. If that were true, there would be less jobs now than in 1900. But the opposite is true. Products are more efficiently reaching the consumer. This means more people are buying more things. This means producers have to hire more people or buy more raw materials. Lets go with a real classic example. Lets say that you and myself make sewing needles. We both do it by hand, because in this example we are at the dawn of the industrial revolution, making a needle at a time. Now lets say I figure out a way to make a machine that makes 100 needles in the time it took me to make 1, and because less of my time is going into each needle I can sell them cheaper. I am now able to reach more stores than before to sell my sewing needles. I have to hire some more people to make deliveries because I can only do so much by myself. Now I also grow to the point of having to buy another machine because my business is booming. People love my sewing needles. But I can't man 2 machines, so I hire in another person. Now I have more people making deliveries, and I no longer deliver myself because I am better at making needles than delivering them. The guys supplying me with the metal to make the needles also had to hire some people to keep up with my demand. And the people mining the metal for my needles also had to hire another miner. This may sound like a made up story, but this sort of thing was going on at this time. The argument that automation kills jobs has been around since before the industrial revolution. * How much would your cell phone be if we were still using horse and cart to deliver goods? * Would your mother/sister/girlfriend/wife/Yourself (if you are a girl) be able to have a full time job if they did not have a washing machine, iron, vacuum cleaner, other appliances? * What kind of selection in the grocery store would you have if the tractor was never used?