"To quote a comedian: ""You don't have to be a helicopter pilot or engineer to know there is a problem when the engine is on fire."" There is no need to appeal to authority. We can very often get so caught up in the myriad details of our subject matter that we fail to step back and see the situation from another point of view. We then become entrenched in our ideology, and overly defensive when others bring criticisms. You have become overly entrenched in your Republican ideology. Your economic theories have left you lacking an understanding of value beyond what can be translated into financial gain. Actors spend their lives learning to replicate life. They gain a better understanding of suffering and joy, the ""intangibles"" in the economic field. Thus, that is where their criticisms often come from. You can expect each person to bring criticisms and insights from their field. My field contains logic, critical thinking, and taking things a literally and parsed as possible, because computers only do EXACTLY what you tell them. So you will see that my criticisms are often about improper logic, or false conclusions based on dependencies or interactions that don't really exist. How did I disenfranchise myself? Because I enjoyed comedy? That doesn't make sense at all. As for going full retard ( a quote from a comedy, I might add), your argument is flying off the handle based off assumptions that have little relation to reality. Where was my ass during primaries? Working offsite at a client's, far from voting machines. Before then, I was glued to media just as most people were at that time. I don't see what you obviously adore in Trump. I see him as a hypocritical bully that talks big, but still represents money. He has lost more money than most people have earned in their lifetime of hard work, yet he is touted as a great businessman. He attacks those who criticize him. Hillary is a two-faced, back stabbing snake who will say anything to get the audience in her favor, and isn't above lying to get her way. Unfortunately, she is sneakier than Trump. If I had voted, I would have voted for Trump, just because his methods are much more obvious. That doesn't mean his methods are better. Just because you have become so entrenched in Trump's support structure that you fail to see his failings doesn't mean they don't exist. Just because liberals become so entrenched in hating Trump that they fail to see his good side doesn't mean it doesn't exist either. But you aren't looking at both sides of the road. You aren't even trying to. Instead, you are telling me how my methods are bad because they aren't the same as yours, my opinions are bad because they don't agree with yours, and I am going full retard because you disagree. You are yet again not verifying a damned thing, and are appealing to authority the whole way. You aren't thinking for yourself. You are being led like a sheep by your preferred media. Every time I have pointed out this shortcoming, you have moved passed it without addressing it. But verification is the key to solid decision making. How can I possibly accept your view when you refuse to verify your information before you not only agree with it, but argue it to others? That's the action of an extremist or ""true believer"", not someone trying to make sure they know the truth. Where is your logic and critical thinking? Bring it back into the game. Stop arguing with your ego and look for your own inconsistencies before you try to drag issues you see with me into the light. I have pointed out time and again how my methods are self-consistent, and I've even admitted when I didn't have enough information. You have never self-analyzed in the course of this discussion. By inductive reasoning, I feel you may rarely, if ever, self-analyze. Clean up your logic before you try to clean up mine, please."