More money doesn't make people richer in the sense that if the govt gave every citizen a $1 they would all still have the same amount of wealth and purchasing power, but their nominal value in dollar terms would be $1 higher. Money is just the denominator in exchange, so lets say a bicycle is $100 and a scooter is $200, you know that 2 bikes equals 1 scooter. So printing $100 for people to each buy a bicycle will just make the price of bikes go up, and they'll end up costing much more than $100, so no real wealth has been created. The main problem that I think you're trying to identify i that we've had an over-expansion of credit by central banks around the world. The scarcity of credit is a good thing because it forces only the best, most productive ideas to be allowed to be undertaken. If a bank only has $10 to loan, and business man A can use that to have a return of 50%, business man B can have 25%, and business man C can have 5%, then the obvious choice is to give the loan to business man A because he is using the resources most productively, and depending on the details of his business model, is the least risky person to loan to (ie the bank is most assured he will be able to pay his money back). But with central banks controlling interest rates, and reserve requirements for banks, the banks can lever themselves up and lend out much more money than they've taken in. After all if a bank can finance its reserves with low interest rates, but make additional money from increased lending, then they are incentivised to seek higher profits. Especially with the FDIC insuring everyone's bank deposits. So now businessmen A, B and C all get their loans and are able to start their businesses, but they're all in the same line of work and need to utilize the same resources. So now instead of just businessman A buying materials he has two other buyers looking to utilize a scarce amount of resources. The price of those resources is now higher since supply is limited but demand has tripled. So now businessman A can only make 40% through his business, B can make 5% and businessman C loses money in his venture. A and B pay their loan back but C is unable to. Ignoring interest, for the sake of simplicity, the bank has essentially broken even. Before leveraging up they loaned out $10 and got back $10. After leveraging they loaned out $30 and got back 20. So the problem you're seeing is excessive credit permitting ventures to be undertaken that should not have been allowed to be. The problem is interest rates that are not set by the market, but by a centralized bureau who couldn't possibly have enough information to determine what the cost of financing should be.