">> You have the same problem with soybeans (Geraldes Castanheira, 2013), it's a problem with production that affects all agriculture. > You aren't getting it. Animals don't grow out the ground like plants do. You need to grow plants and then feed them to the animals to grow. The very first sentence in the soy article you sent me is ""The increase in soybean production as a source of protein and oil is being stimulated by the growing demand for livestock feed.."". You cannot win an efficiency fight in this, in the same way you cannot win an argument saying it is more efficient to create wine than it is to create grapes. I think you didn't understand what I was pointing out. Burning down rain forest to clear land for livestock or burning down rain forest to grow soybeans for human consumption cause the same problems. The problem is with burning down rain forest, not what you use the land for. As I pointed out earlier we don't have an efficiency problem for food, we're not going to tell people to stop drinking wine as it's more efficient to just eat the grapes. We could also use the land to grow food for people but I've seen very few people passionately argue that people should stop drinking wine. >> The point is that we can double the earth population without running out of food, and then we can add another 40% in the US by simply not throwing away the food, then we can optimize land use, and not all land is suitable for growing crops so we get more food by using it for meat. > Arguing to continue proven damaging behaviours because we can ""afford it"" is trying to rationalize illogical behaviour, its like saying I can smoke because I'm still young and then when I'm older I can increase my healthy food intake and exercise to offset it. But eating meat isn't the problem, as I've illustrated above. The problem is fossil fuels and unsustainable agricultural practices, which are the same even if people go vegan. >> An optimized scenario includes meat as not all land is suitable to farming, and you have seafood and wildlife. > An optimized scenario is purely plant based. That land you speak of that is not suitable for farming - it may provide physical space to house the animals, but where is the food the animals need to grow coming from? Don't even get started into ocean depletion and what we've done to that resource. And why move on to wildlife if we have no requirements for meat in the first place? An optimized scenario is definitely not purely plant based. Would you just ignore the truly vast resources of the oceans? We can use those in a sustainable way and they provide huge amounts of food. Should we ignore huge tracts of pasture/rangeland unsuitable for farming like mountainous terrain, hills, plains with thin soil, heath, etc.? Of course we shouldn't. This is getting a bit circular, I don't think we'll get much further in trying to debate this. I thank you for a good exchange."