"Inherent or intrinsic value. (Aside from the term's use with regards to options markets) Every time I tell someone I've invested in Bitcoin they tell me that it is silly because there is no inherent or intrinsic value in Bitcoin. But what is the intrinsic value of paper with a federal seal on it? What is the intrinsic value of a component that could be, but doesn't have to be used in computer parts (gold)? My favorite question of all to show the silliness of ""intrinsic value"" is to ask what is the intrinsic value of water? To someone parched and dying of thirst in a desert I'm quite certain that, faced with death, they'd be willing to part with an appendage for the water, if anything to simply survive. On the other hand, what is the value of water to someone drowning? I would think it actually has a quite negative value and they'd be more than happy to see the water gone, even going so far as to part with an appendage. To make an argument that water has an intrinsic value is to say that the word ""value"" isn't subjective when it very clearly is, in both cases where water is needed and not wanted, one would feasibly be willing to pay a very extreme cost (the removal of an appendage) in order to both have or be rid of water. All this said, it would appear that ""intrinsic value"" means ""I'm trying to make an objective point about a subjective value."" Even if you were to try to make the case that water had some sort of baseline or average value with regards to supporting mankind and that *this* was ""intrinsic"", it would additionally be irrelevant, because the definition of supporting mankind is subjective. Do we just use just enough water to keep men and women alive across the world, without regards to health? Do we count children as half men? Do we count a non-active 50 year old female's water needs as highly as an active 16 year old male's? What about with regards to evaporation and condensation? We don't know the weather or climate changes in store, so in case of famine should we consider enough water to last 3 days, 3 weeks, or 3 years? No, I'm afraid the only way to really consider what is the value of water is to drop this silly notion of intrinsic value and realize that water is worth merely what someone is willing to pay for it. And so, my argument would go, is Bitcoin."