"In general I don’t think you can blame the news stories. You can blame everyone’s preconceived notion that any sort of LBO or leveraged restructuring is the devil’s work. Every American is of course well-versed in the subject. From the Sealy example, you clearly have a journalist who has no idea what they are talking about. All you have is a cherry-picked summary of what took place. As such, the “finance scholars” jump in and explain how it’s all a giant scam. Bain LBO’d Sealy in 1997. As a part of that, it was saddled with ~$700m in debt. That of course is fodder for the ""finance scholars"" because they don't understand the benefits of debt and more generally how LBOs work, none of which are noted in the article. The article then notes that Sealy has recently encountered trouble. To the ""geniuses"" this is of course because of Romney's work and the ~$700m in debt. No one notices the fact that Bain unloaded this in 2004 for double what it paid for it. For those that did, the unloading was a textbook Bain scam. Bain unloaded this to KKR, perhaps the sharpest and most successful PE firm in history. Would KKR put $1.5b into this if it were a scam? According to the ""geniuses"", of course they would. How could Mitt Romney actually improve a business? No one looks at the fact that revenues were up considerably, margins had expanded tremendously, growth prospects were higher, and FCF yields were fantastic. This is why KKR bought the company, and this is what an LBO is supposed to be. I haven't done a ton of work on this case, it was before my time, but I would be very surprised if the growth wasn't accompanied by employee expansion as well. You also get the “I wish I had a way to just walk away from my debt” comment. I don’t even know where to begin explaining how asinine that is. Equity is subordinated to debt. That’s the definition of equity. The article also notes the one-sided-mattress idea, which is construed as Romney's giant scam to screw the average American while flipping this company and making his millions. The article of course didn't note that this one-sided mattress idea was a mere fraction of revenue. This was designed as an economy mattress, with an advertised shorter shelf life. Plus how can this be a scam? Would you go into the mattress store and pay the same amount for a mattress with only one side? If you would you deserve to get half of a mattress. So the crux of it is, this is in actuality an example of what an LBO should be. At least for Bain’s part. Bain took a business that was ripe for an LBO (reasonable steady FCF, low leverage), did the LBO, improved the business, and came out on top. What KKR did with it afterwords I have no idea. I would imagine it has more to do with deteriorating business conditions than the debt on its balance sheet. I work with restructurings over 100 hours a week. I of course don’t come up with the plans (I’m a lowly analyst building models and associated bitchwork) but I see just how brilliant these ideas are. In a lot of cases restructurings prevent the tripping of covenants and associated bankruptcy and allow for strategy to play out and for companies to grow. I can of course give a more detailed rant on the article, but I figured no one will read this anyway."