"> I guarantee you that there's someone, somewhere (probably many someones in many somewheres) that would be happy to do your job for a lot less money. Probably, but I am in a very different type of labor market than a Boeing union worker. Firms compete over candidates pretty ruthlessly, and the use of headhunters starts in the first couple months of work - sometimes before you even leave college. I started using a headhunter immediately after junior year ended. Boeings requirements for it's mechanics is ""pass drug test, graduated high school"". The requirements for getting my job were ""attend a top university in the US, have a GPA in the top 5% at your institution, and then beat out on 90,000 other applicants for the fewer than 1,000 slots. The selectivity rate for the job is nearly 6-fold higher than getting into Harvard undergrad. What I'm getting at is that it's not a matter of ""other people would willingly do my job for less"", it's the fact that those people are unable to get my job to begin with as the companies are unwilling to lower their standards and are competing for a very small pool of talent. But the minute they thought that they COULD do so without any ill consequences I know that they would outsource my position to India and I wouldn't blame them for doing it. > Does that mean that all publicly traded companies have a duty to demand tax incentives to not move to North Carolina, or Poland, or Cambodia? My company has found a way to move a lot of it's back office employees out of state to cheaper areas. It is, in fact, the duty of any public company to strive for profit maximization. In the case of Boeing the cost savings over the next 30 years by moving to North Carolina (or Missouri, or whatever) would be incredible, which is why they have spoken about it. >Calling someone overcompensated means that the prevailing wage in the competitive labor market for the same quality of work is lower, not just assuming that someone would be willing to do it if you offered them $40k and a wrench. It is. They are already being paid a lower rate outside of Washington State. Not to mention the idea that the competitive labor levels are brought about by a union is a direct affront to 80 years of labor economics. >That's easy to say and strikes an intuitive chord with the public, but there's no evidence that Boeing ""needs"" to do this. Except that their primary competitor receives funding from multiple European governments. And EADS (or Airbus Group now) is constantly attempting to take market share from Boeing in the United States, both with airlines and with the government itself. >(stopping making stupid decisions to outsource large components around the world would be a great way to save money, for starters) I can guarantee you that, on paper, the expected costs for outsourcing even with the risks involved were lower. But sometimes things don't go according to plan. Does that mean that companies should not try to innovate in their processes?"