"The article ends saying Steve's success was not attributed to him being an asshole but, I think it did. Steve figured out how to tap into a human desire that ~30% of the market who can afford and is in the market for an iPhone has. The desire to be ""smug"" and have the ""new and greatest""; he marketed that to the predisposed ""asshole types."" Now don't down vote me yet, hear me out. I am not saying all iphone users are in this category but: Using men as a sample here. We like toys, and having the best toy out of your peers is something of a status symbol. Think back in the days of old when having a sword or weapon was the normal thing to carry around. The man with the most elaborate, or bigger or advanced sward/weapon was revered; and could use it to brag. Now a days there are a lot more beta males (yes I am taking it there) than in the ""rugged past"" due to institutions like police and insurance allowing for these men to get mates and pass along their genes. This allows for the propagation of Dick measuring rituals via possessions rather than actions. Look around at all your iphone owners how tough are they really, how often do they complain about trivial shit that doesnt matter or do nothing about it. How often do they say ""check out this cool new (in reality useless) app I have""? This is the personality that Steve cornered and marketed to. As for women, women like to have the newest and nicest things as well for a different reason. They use it to show off their desirability to other women in the big race that women run: women only care about what other women think of them, they care about men in the sense that they can brag to other women how many men are after them- giving them status among their peers. The iPhone is marketed like jewelry to women, an accessory that complements them, like earings and a purse. And for all the people who say they like it for the usefulness and such, okay you are truly 10% the 100% of his market. That is the excuse apple can use as the conscious part of the advertising, and the few people that use it for those reason make the vast minority. Because realistically an Android and a BB can do many things, and some better than the ipone for WAY less. If you'd like to know I used to own a BB was going to get an iphone, but wanted to ""disconnect"" from the google everything that comes up in conversation, email always on, facebook always on lifestyle.- So I got a pos phone that i dont worry about dropping, getting wet, etc."