I was in a very similar place 10 years ago. I was in my mid 20's with 45K in combined school + personal/business related debt and working in IT for not very much. I already had 10-15K in debt when my college loans first came due and it was the first time I really had to come to terms with the hole I had dug myself and I spent weeks at a time obsessing over plans that would help me get out of debt. It effected my health and my relationships. I felt like I was never going to come out from under it. My family was very much lower middle class (<30K household income) and I wasn't going to get or expect any help there so I went to work and made it a point to make sure every personal and professional decision I made was conducive to my long term goals and before I knew it they became short term goals. Find out what your basic monthly need is, be brutally honest, cut back on things like cable tv ( I still don't have it ), reduce your phone plans, borrow things when you don't have to buy them and send that money to your debt. Pick up some hobbies that don't cost much. These are all minor sacrifices. I got back in to playing the piano and spent a lot of time at the beach in the summer and caching up on books I'd always meant to read in the winter. I ran a lot of numbers in a spreadsheet but you can play with the numbers with online loan calculators to put some real numbers behind your goals. Here is one that I just tried out http://loan.bizcalcs.com/Calculator.asp?Calc=Loan-Early-Payoff You'll probably be surprised how much effect a little bit of extra towards a loan can make in the long term. Put your current college loan details in to it and then see what the effect of an extra 150 a month is. I know you've implied that you really don't have anything extra each month and that is fine. Figure out an amount that gets you moving towards your goals and then start working on a way to make it. Figuring out how to make or squeeze an extra n dollars out of your budget every 30 days is much less daunting than thinking about paying off 50K. You said you are working in IT, I don't know where you live but in my city there are lots of decent IT related jobs. Your first goal might need to be to find a better one. If possible move around balances until you've got interest rates you can deal with and now that you have solid numbers to plan with consider the effect of making smaller goals. Would you feel as bad if you had half as much debt? How about if you got rid of 10K of debt? Or just your credit cards? I know I felt a huge relief when I cut my overall debt in half. It felt like a huge part of my burden had lifted, and it had. I could start seeing the end of the tunnel. I think that one of the biggest changes in my life since then has been the way I look at and think about money and debt. I didn't really have to sacrifice much. I learned to travel cheaply and whenever I met a goal I'd reward myself with a small trip. Today I have a very low mortgage payment and I pay my full credit balances each month so I have no revolving bad debt. I wish you luck and I know exactly where you are standing right now.