"To summarize, the money never existed. The best example I can give is the housing bubble. Houses were being bought on credit worthiness and this pushed the house prices and values up as if the houses had been bought with real money. When people couldn't make their payments, the house prices crashed. The boom and bust cycle is simply credit being overextended (boom) and when there is not enough money in the system for everyone to repay all their debts it crashes (bust). The real question that people should be asking is not ""Where did all the money go?"", but ""Why is money issued by private banks?"" Money is a social invention to facilitate trade. Should it not be like a public water utility? Counterfeiting is illegal except when a private bank does it. Money should not be variable in value and economics will never be a science if the measurement of value is not standardized. All natural sciences have standards of measurement like meters, joules, degrees, etc. Money must decrease in value constantly because all money is issued at interest. We essentially pay rent on all money that isssued and the interest can only be repaid if more money is created, once again at interest. This is why economists generally say some inflation is good. Finance has told them interest is a given on the issue of money when in reality, money is just an IOU that requires no such interest payment for it's issue. Interest should be made if a loan is issued against savings, but not for the simple issuance of money. There should be public banks that issue the money and private banks for investment. You can read more about this from reading about Arthur Kitson. In this way, the public controls the value of it's money, not private bankers that use the issue of money to transfer wealth to an idle financial class. If you want to get into the differences between wealth and debt, read the work of Frederick Soddy. It's off topic from this thread but really interesting to see how he relates real science to economics and how our current economic system is not scientific in the least. Wealth is subject to the laws of thermodynamics while debt is an invention of the human will. Debt never rots or degrades with time and can expand exponentially through compound interest - nothing in the natural world does this."