Bitcoin prices are likely rising as a result of the simple issue of supply and demand. Supply is constrained as there aren't much in the way of new bitcoins coming into existence, and demand is high right now as a result of various events. For example, this Reuters article goes into some detail as to some current influences. Mostly, crypto-hedge funds are buying a lot of bitcoins as a speculative move (i.e., believing the price will continue to rise). The evidence suggests that few of the users are buying bitcoin to use it as a means of exchange, but are speculating to increase their capital. Many describe the bubble as similar to the Tulip craze in seventeenth century Holland; from the same Reuters article: “It’s got all the shapings of your tulip bubble chart (but) that tells you nothing about where that price line could go depending on the number of people who wish to own it,” Standard Life’s head of investment strategy, Andrew Milligan, said on Wednesday. “Who is to say it doesn’t reach $100,000?” You can see in the volume chart from blockchain.info that the trading volume for bitcoins has really increased - and if you look at the market price, you see a very similar movement. However, if you look at the number of transactions per day, that number is basically constant - meaning the actual uses of bitcoins by people just buying or selling goods or services isn't really changing much, but the dollar amount is. That's indicative of a speculation-caused bubble. Below is a graph I made from the data from blockchain.info above that overlays price with trading volume; you can see clearly the increase in volume and increase in price are nearly simultaneous. Bitcoin itself has some actual utility, mostly for black market sellers and similar people participating in activities that are less than legal (not necesesarily ethically bad, for example people in nations with oppressive regimes that limit contact with the outside world or try to restrict foreign currency purchases). It's unlikely that the degree of adoption so far however has driven it to this level, and the fact that bitcoin can be broken up into very small chunks means that the big boom in price of individual bitcoins causes the demand-side pressure from the actual use of bitcoins to be alleviated (as there is now 1/10th the demand for bitcoins from people who use them for non-speculative reasons).