Hi We are looking to connect with UK medical technology companies and other relevant people who could help us complete a project we are currently working on. We are currently representatives of a consortium of Drs based in the Middle East and Iran. With the lifting of international sanctions by the 5+1 group of nations and JCPOA in early 2016, on Iran, has resulted in our clients being very interested in purchasing and becoming official distributors off medical equipment from the UK. I have had some lengthy discussions with this team in Dubai and Tehran, and I'm told the the domestic Persian market has a very deep sense of of affiliation with German, Italian and French companies, whom have been involved more in the Persian Gulf region than Britain since 2012. One key point I did however notice is the demand and respect that British Tech commands. This has encouraged our team to take on this project to help these guys access the products they require. They are interested in buying from UK manufacturing and reselling it as official distributors to the domestic Persian markets 80million population. They are also very interested in collaborating with and acquiring the licences to UK medical technologies, which they would like to then buy the rights too or licence/franchise for their locality and they have the capacity to invest in manufacturing this product in the Middle East, working in conjunction with the UK companies. An example of how this has worked in the past is the French car manufacturer working in collaboration with Iranian Engineering company to produce and manufacture Peugeot Pars car. Which looks very much like a peugeot 405 but is infact designed and developed specifically for the local market and is also manufactured locally. This is a huge success and we feel we can imitate its success in our plan too. I have been in discussions with a number of sources where I could possibly complete this project through. I have come to know from my research globally within this sector that there are approx 3500 medical technology companies registered in the UK. All specialising in various fields. I was wondering is there a database anywhere which I can't access to see whom and where these companies are exactly in the UK. I have until now established that between 70-80% of companies worldwide in MED Tech field are based in or affiliated with either the USA or Israel, with the majority of the remaining 20% of companies being European or Japanese. There are also many collaborations between Euro companies which was quiet pleasing for me to see. We fully understand that the USA under Trump have reinstated the sanction for USA. However our understanding is that we in the UK are not at present restricted by Sanctions to trade with Iranian companies. We strongly feel that the British medical technology sector here in the UK could benefit considerably it could also help It to progress and grow to take a bigger global Market share as well bring in 100s of millions in revenues for the UK economy. We strongly feel that with Brexit negotiations in the pipeline, as well as the geo political situation that the world finds itself in right now, that this is the right time to work in collaboration with this consortium and help them with completion of this project successfully and lawfully. We strongly feel though that the due diligence carried in any trade deals needs to be within a framework of EU, UK regulations and in compliance with any UN or other sanctions we are un aware off. We had been planning to use due diligence guidelines from the USA when dealing with Iranian companies, however we feel this is the main reason why France and Germany along with Italy are winning all the contracts in Iran, and with the help of relevant government departments we would like to develop our own plan for this based on the current situation. We would like this to be the beginning of a number of high level trade deals we are in negotiations with right now with high level Middle Eastern business consortiums, in Dubai, Doha, Muscat, Tehran, Kuwait. We feel Britain has missed it to France and Germany when it comes to Iran, and would like to work with all the relevant departments to create a due diligence plan which is effective and helps us reach our goals. I would appreciate any advice you can give us in this respect. Thanks Alfie Star Senior project manager alfie.star@commodustrade.com http://www.commodustrade.com