Finding that perfect assisted living facility may be difficult and confusing to choose. There are few factors one should look for before signing the dotted line. We asked summerfield.com owner, Rebecca Landau, to tell us, what makes her facility a sought after place for elderly looking for a Utah retirement. What is assisted living? This is the most popular solution for elderly people who cannot live independently. It is place where residents will not have to cook their own meals or cut the grass. Our Summerfield Retirement facility offers less expensive residential care while providing a broad range of assistance. What are the services you provide? Residents get assistance with their bathing, dressing, eating and any other needs. All three meals are cooked from freshly sourced ingredients taking into consideration the dietary needs of each resident. With 24 hour call-light assistance and customized care plan, residents remain socially active while maintaining their independence. Even though the Timpanogos Hospital is right across the street we have specialized doctors, dentists, and podiatrists making regular scheduled visits. How is the quality of life at an assisted living community? The quality of life can well be seen on the faces of our residents. Every resident has made friends with each other and socially interacts with like-minded people. Daily exercise and a variety of different activities keep them active and happy. Scenic outings, bingo, musical performances, an onsite library, and gym ensure there is never a dull moment at Summerfield. The best part about our UTAH retirement home is our ability to adapt to and provide support as needed by each resident. An elderly person with less mobility will require a different set of support than someone having trouble remembering details. So instead of losing all their independence and privacy, we provide and adaptable environment. Information about our community Contact: Phone: (801) 434 – 7581 Address: 911 North 800 West Orem, Utah 84057 Send questions and inquiries through our contact form: http://summerfieldinfo.com/contact/