Many Americans ingest statins to lower cholesterol levels. But several studies, as unearthed by Fisher Capital Management Korea Reviews, show that cholesterol-friendly foods, like tree nuts and soy products, help lower bad cholesterol levels or LDL. In the Journal of the American Medical Association, a study showed that LDL cholesterol levels were decreased by 13%, for people who ate healthy diet with low cholesterol foods. There was a 3% decrease for those who ate a diet low in saturated fats. Dr. David Jenkins, lead author of the study and a professor of metabolism and nutrition at the University of Toronto, said that it is possible for people to lower their cholesterol through proper diet. This can be small changes they can make in their lives, if they really want to stay conscious about their cholesterol levels. Jenkins created a “portfolio diet” that combined foods to lower cholesterol and prevent heart disease. It includes daily consumption of vegetables, oats, and barley as well as tree nuts. The diet plans to use soy-based products to substitute meat and plant sterol-enriched margarine to replace butter. Dr. Jane Klauer, an internist based in New York who specializes in nutrition and metabolism, says that this lowers the risk for any cardiovascular disease. She continues that the diet creates a positive change in cholesterol levels. Dr. Walter Willet, professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health, insists that there are greater benefits if you replace dairy products and red meat, which are possible sources of saturated fat, to soy products and nuts, rather than with carbohydrates. Before doctors suggest medications to lower cholesterol, they usually advice patients to modify their diet and lifestyle. If this doesn’t work, they readily prescribe statins, which minimizes the production of cholesterol in the liver. Eating fruits, vegetables, lean poultry, fish and whole grains are also suggested to reduce risk of cardiovascular diseases. The study may have lasted only six-months for follow-up, but Fisher Capital Management Korea Reviews believe there has to be a longer period to understand its effects. They also noted that the diet was plant-based, which many meat-eaters will find it difficult to maintain.