> You can't find anyone else who would pay you more, or you would have left. That's a reflection of what you have to offer the world. Your comment was thoughtful, and this last bit in particular I feel is like something that I've been wrestling with for a while. It's a very libertarian view as you probably know. It makes a lot of sense to me, but I can't help to think of some possible flaws and wonder what you think: 1. Availability of work: If somebody has a choice between no job and being grossly underpaid, wouldn't the choice be between having no money and a little money at that point? Doesn't that run the risk of exploitation? Wouldn't exploitation be working for less than what you're worth? 2. Value: Unskilled pretty much means replaceable. They don't give a shit if you come or go, and vice versa. That's not a reflection of a job's worth to the company, nor is a real reflection of how difficult it is. There's no competition for wages. Eventually workers get sick of it and leave, not expecting improved wages elsewhere but a job they can deal with for 40 hours per week. But there are always more people in need to take their place, so the company has no incentive to raise wages. Like you said, it *is* a reflection of what you have to offer to the world, in a sense that your skills are not uncommon. However, is this everything? The world *needs* unskilled labor to run. Is there something wrong with being a cashier? A doorman? A guy who unpacks the trucks that carry the things we all use? No, the world *needs* these people..should people who are needed have jobs that don't allow for them to meet basic living standards? 3. Expectation: The only reason why most people won't work for less than 8 or 9 dollars/hr, expect reasonable flexibility to balance work and personal life, don't expect to be forced to work more than 8-9 hours per day, have weekends off, and those working 40 hrs/week demand holiday pay/sick days/access to insurance/vacation time, is because that's what people expect out of a job in this day and age. None of these things are law (i think). People used to be treated considerably worse by their employers, and likely there will be a time when people will think that the people of our day were stupid for settling for less. The labor movement has done much in this regard. > Maybe, instead of bitching that you are paid shit wages, you should ask why you ever expected to earn more after failing to acquire any skill a teenager couldn't master in a week. 4. Everyone's solution?: Let's say everyone learns to do a skilled job, who will be left to do the unskilled jobs? Someone will have to do them. Some countries have hordes of college educated workers working unskilled jobs, because of the high % that go to college. Ok, so then leave it to merit. Does merit always work though? What about nepotism? Personality, when it doesn't matter for the job? Age, Race, Sex, Ethnicity..think these play any part in the hiring process? If all else fails, not everyone can be expected to be a successful entrepreneur. 5. Life: Life can throw you some curveballs, and people make mistakes. Some tend to pay for them more than others. Some have talent, others don't. Some are born with money, some not. Some have a large and caring family, others have no family at all. Again, I'm not saying these things necessarily invalidate your original point, but it's something to consider. Your thoughts?