I know this may be difficult for you and like so many other people pointed out here, you either only read what you want or do not comprehend what you read. I was specifically talking about MS the entire time, never said anything about the bakery you are referencing so once again you are making a moot point with your protected class information..I was talking about how the entire state was burned in Reddit when some bigoted business owners decided to not do business with LGBT people about 8 months ago. Again, just because you think something should be some way, doesn't mean it is. Wish and hope all you want to but until the law says they are protected, they are not. So again, what paypal did is not different than what the businesses in ms did, but your type of people had the opposite reaction then than you do now and I was merely trying to point it out like almost everyone else you are arguing with in this thread has tried to but fell on deaf ears. They are the same but they do not match your opinion so you put up you blinders and shove your fingers in your ears while screaming like a child at anyone trying to point out a fallacy in your logic. Also what does my politics have to do with this? I hate to burst your bubble but I'm not libertarian..regardless, it does not matter. You bring up politics as if it would effect me by you calling me libertarian..why? Just because my opinion is different you automatically call me out as [insert political party here] that does not agree with you to try and invalidate anything I'm saying. Well, I'm done. It is pointless to try and tell you anything that differs from your opinion. I grow tired of telling you the same thing over and over again especially when you apparently do not read replies or skip over any part that you disagree with. Good luck with your line of thinking. Hopefully one day someone like PayPal does not block your business or a business you do business with because it differs from their opinion. Your opinion now aligns with theirs, but what happens next time it doesn't and they have the same kind of power. Let them do it once, next time you well not have a choice. Don't worry about replying, I'm no longer interested in hearing your opinion as I have now made up my mind that you are small minded and lack basic thought required to see past your immediate fields of view. They are burning someone else now, eventually they well burn you since you are so happy to let them do it too someone else. Don't make a stand now, they will not let you make a stand later.