"> Im genuinely enjoying the conversation and sorry about the name calling most of my political and economic debates happen with family where name calling is not only accepted but expected lol. Same. We can't even talk about politics anymore because it became to contentious. It is a shame, since I do enjoy talking about it. > this link seems to contradict that statment. From your source: ""Kellogg School assistant professor of strategy Craig Garthwaite and his coauthors find that when the population of uninsured Americans increases, hospitals end up bearing the cost by providing uncompensated care."" And also from your source: ""Most of it is in the form of Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments, which, according to federal law, are owed to any qualified hospital that serves a large number of Medicaid and uninsured patients."" So basically, just like I said - when an uninsured or underinsured person gets treated, but then doesn't pay, the Hospitals file a claim and seek reimbursement from Medicare / Medicaid to get some of that non-payment back. The only thing is, they only get a percent of the non-payment reimbursed. How do many of these hospitals deal with this? By jacking up prices in the hopes of getting a larger chunk of the *actual* cost reimbursed. From your source: ""“The DSH payments are less than the uncompensated care that’s provided,” explains Garthwaite."" > This is dangerously false. The industry isnt known for underbidding and going over budget. I think we are both looking at our respective industries through rose colored glass. I think we can agree that each of us can point out instances where industry and government have pooped the bed. You can probably spill out a dozen example of government wasted dollars, and I can tell you a dozen example of corporations that weren't efficient, that were slow, and that the government beat them at a task. I think we are both right, and that both exist in a world where they can be inefficient and wasteful, and they can also be speedy and innovative. If you would like to see examples, I will share some. What we haven't seen, is a world in which commercial runs it all and runs everything efficiently. We have seen places where government runs it all, and it went to hell in a handbasket - USSR, NK, East Germany are all prime examples. I actually lived in Germany when the wall came down, so I got to see what an isolationist, and a government only run program looks like firsthand."