"I work in analyzing economic development projects in the Midwest like this, and one of the most frustrating aspects of my job is when people try to distill and simplify complex financing structures for the sake of misleading others and furthering an agenda. It's not uncommon that I see small local blogs write articles saying something to the effect of ""Major Development Project Skips Paying the Taxes it Rightfully Owes!"" completely disregarding the fact that in most cases the local government's options are to either give the developer an incentive and make some additional money, or offer nothing and watch the developer walk away from the table for a different site the next county over. Most governments, given the choice, would take lowered tax payments and more jobs over no tax payments and no jobs. Since I was curious, I decided to do a quick back-of-the-envelope calculation of this project using a common economic impact model. I used a conservative assumption of 3,000 new jobs (the minimum Foxconn expects to have by 2020, and well below the maximum capacity of the factory) in the Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing (6-digit NAICS code of 334310) industry, using the entire State of Wisconsin as a geography. This industry has average annual earnings in Wisconsin of $56,000, so I subtracted out $3,000 per job to make it in line with the article. I also used the liberal assumption that 100% of these jobs will be considered ""net new"" or that they won't be replacing or destroying any existing jobs within the state. The results: - Salaries alone will amount to about $160 million per year, assuming all workers receive the same salary of $53,000. - Indirect effects (basically new jobs and spending for other industries used to support and maintain the factory, that aren't directly employed by the factory itself) will add an additional $20 million in earnings annually. - Finally, induced effects (the economic impact of new employees spending their salaries within the economy) will add an additional $80 million. - Total change in jobs (including factory workers, maintenance and utility workers, and new workers in supply chain industries) is estimated as just north of 5,000. This adds up to $260 million in additional annual earnings within the Wisconsin economy. There is a lot more to be considered when looking at a project like this, and there are **a lot** of ways Wisconsin or Foxconn can fuck this all up, but it isn't out of the realm of possibility that attracting this new plant will end up being a worthwhile plan for Wisconsin. Also, this quote: >“We are calling this development ‘Wisconn Valley,’ ” he said, speaking from the East Room of the White House, “because we believe this will have a transformational effect on Wisconsin just as Silicon Valley transformed the San Francisco Bay area.” Sounds like bullshit. Silicon Valley is largely research and development, not manufacturing. Saying that you'll replicate the success of software engineers earning $120k a year by bringing in more $50k a year manufacturing jobs is misleading at best."