Depending on your location, you might have a lot of options to choose from to mitigate your tax burden. There might even be a possibility of combining a few options to make a buck or two off of it. As someone already mentioned, check out conservation easements and REITs, they can be great ways of relieving your burden. Another option that I know is available in a number of states is land-use tax qualifications that allow for significantly reduced tax rates based on the current zoning/use of the land as a timber area(You may not plan on harvesting the timber but you can potentially still qualify for the reduction). Is the land appropriately assessed/appraised? Make sure you're not getting ripped off. What are your neighboring landholders paying for taxes? I would imagine most locales in and around New England would at least have GIS parcel maps in place, talk to your neighbors and find out what they do to minimize their costs. If all else fails, check out ParcelQuest or Google Earth Pro and find out the digs on others with similar land holdings. Make some cold calls, be polite, and ask. Many people, especially in the country are happy to oblige a friendly neighbor. What would the definition of 'pristine' be? What is the age of the trees, furthermore, what type of trees comprise the woodland? Are you open to selective harvesting(which if done properly can actually improve the health of your property)?Check out what you can do with it(is your woodland comprised of sugar maple or some other resource that might be of persistent value?). Do you want to have the land for the sake of having it or do you want to do anything with it? If you're in a semi-urban environment you could converse with local hunting, disc-golf, or other groups that might be interested in utilizing the land. These uses could potentially be combined with a conservation easement to improve your outcome in more ways than one. Keep in mind, often times with conservation easements, know everything you want out of the land in the long term. Once the ink is dry, the deal is done. Take your time, think about it. Do what feels right.