"College is an institution that's modern purpose is obscured and obstructed by outdated ideas about what it used to be. College nowadays is de facto vocational training for white collar professions. But college used to be a place of learning, knowledge, discovery, and inquiry for pure academics, intellectuals, and wealthy scions. People go to college as a prerequisite for a career, but instead encounter a culture of learning for learning's sake, a system originally designed to turn independently wealthy gentlemen into erudite gentlemen. As they are today, the majority of colleges are traps for unwitting, would-be workers. For all the high school graduates that go to college for the hope of a better life, a high percentage are lured and deceived into learning that amounts to the theft of four years and their tuition, including majors like archaeology or history. Whatever the value of such horizon broadening is to society, it is wrong to ask students to pay the bill for irrelevant learning. It is unconscionable that today's employers expect employees to have financed the cost of a small house to be qualified to sit at a desk, answer phone calls, and fill out a spreadsheet for less than $40,000 per year. Meanwhile, colleges cling to their delusional self-image as academic institutions. How many majors actually prepare students to get a career? A handful of majors have obvious specific outcomes, like dentistry or computer science, though even the most basic programming job is more specialized than ""CS graduate."" How many people major in front-end web development? What job does Business Administration prepare students for? ""Business."" Learn the same thing from a degree called project management and that student goes from unemployed to earning six figures. Academic colleges have their place, but we should have a system that provides credentials and focused, relevant instruction in less than two years with job specific training, marketable skills, and job placement for much, much less money. I propose that colleges be separated out into academic institutions and white collar vocational schools, and that they be given equal prestige, academic rigorousness, and consideration for entry level white collar work."