"> I think a the thing with depression and recession is just what he uses to define those economic statuses. He says at the begining that his thinking on the subject is what he uses and might not be conventional. I see. But if the severity of economic recessions/depressions can be categorized by, say, what % of debt defaults or is restructured in a certain period of time, that actually would be a convenient way to think about different recession events intuitively (instead of just the degree to which GDP goes up or down). And I wonder if defaults/debt restructurings are a leading or lagging indicator of a recession. > For the different methods of depression recovery I beleive he was trying to say that the path to a ""beautiful devleraging"" requires balance. Certaintly the deflationary tactics have there own merits, and are not solely for the purpose of offsetting the inflationary methods, but a balance of everything is the most crucial factor for an efficient recovery. Austerity is deflationary (and I'm not sure there are any mainstream/academic economists who support austerity during a recession..) but, again, I have serious doubts whether debt reduction and wealth distribution can be called deflationary. Especially wealth distribution, which is basically the same thing as fiscal spending (which is included in the ""print money"" inflationary category in the video) combined with regressive taxes. I would think that monetary easing and fiscal stimulus (both inflationary) help employment recover, and once employment recovers enough, inflation can rise. Once inflation is expected to rise too much, then you can crank up interest rates/lower fiscal spending. I don't think you really need to worry about adding in deflation for a ""balance"" when trying to recover an economy. Hyperinflation happens only in extreme cases and stagflation, as far as I know, is a technical case that is hard to explain in a video like this. Certainly, austerity is unlikely to help stagflation."