"I got a BA in Econ from a mid-tier public school in CA, and I graduated near the trough of the great recession, so my experience may not represent what current and future graduates can expect. It took a couple of years of shit-jobs, but I eventually got into banking (a matter of who-you-know) and after almost 5 years I couldn't stand it anymore so I am starting my MS in Econ at an also mid-tier public CA school. I can't compare to CS, and my advice will differ from robolib's: 1. Never assume that jobs will we thrown at you, especially a job that you actually want, like, and will make a career. The job market is strong and you ought to be able to get an entry level analyst position if you can show you have strong econometrics. Many schools require you to do a research paper for your senior seminar (instead of a graduation exam) I recommend to choose a topic with good data available. 2. All the government jobs I've looked at required at least a Master's. That said, the ROI on a Phd is rarely worth it if you have to take on debt to do it. You MIGHT be able to get your foot in the door with a Bachelor's but you won't be able to progress up the job ladder. I suggest being a little more open-minded about potential employers, there are way more options when you consider consulting or business development for larger corporations. 3. Economics majors make the most out of the social scientists by far, last I checked it was 60-80k (depending on local market, obv.) but I imagine that trails CS majors significantly. You should be able to afford a decent standard of living in either field, so certainly consider more on the basis of what kind of work you get the most satisfaction from. 4. With an undergrad degree you will start in local government. You may then be able to jump to State and then Federal levels after 5-10 years experience, but still may find it difficult if you forgo the Master's. I have not personally worked as an ""economist"" but I do know you will spend a lot of time searching for/collecting data, writing or using statistical analysis programs to process it, and writing up your reports. 5. Go search ""analyst"" on Indeed.com and you'll find myriad positions in everything from finance, to marketing, to supply chain, etc. which ask for degrees in business, finance, ""or other related field (economics)."" In my opinion, the prestige of the university from which you graduate is secondary to the work you do. Assuming you do a research paper, if it is kick-ass it won't matter much if you went to Harvard or not. Check your city/county jobs site for internship opportunities since no matter what, even getting an entry level job can be difficult if you've never had any job experience in the field (or related field). Labor economics is big since there's a lot of good data and it is a hot topic. Personally, I'm focusing on urban economics, real estate, planning, and transportation. The beauty of Econ is that it is so broad you can almost do whatever you want. But the drawback is that it is so broad it can be tough to show employers that you possess the specific skills and knowledge that make you desirable. Hope this helps!"