>But suppose all the employers do this, so now there are no employer-provided health plans, Which means the insurance bought by employees must get a whole lot cheaper, I guess, as there would be direct competition and lots of shopping around. >, and ten or twenty years down the line they've all just taken advantage so that wages haven't kept up So the employers suddenly don't need to compete on the employee marketplace? I mean in times with high unemployment not, but this is orthogonal to this - in times with high unemployment they don't need to compete with benefits either, I guess? Although in reality I agree with you, let me offer a different but supporting perspective: it is much easier to haggle a salary than to haggle anything else. I've always lived in European countries with different amounts of government-mandated paid holidays and I have never ever heard of a person who succesfully haggled a week of extra holiday in his package, or a VIP-level additional private health insurance above the basic social-security-paid one (the one that gets people more comfortable hospital rooms and better hospital food etc. - if people buy it here, they always buy it privately, not by the employer), or really anything but money. The only extra I ever heard about is the private usage of a company car, and even that is rare, and that has more to do with easier accounting than anything else. Sometimes people get lunch tickets, but that is usually because they are tax-free. I don't know why, but it seems to be the general law: either the government mandates some non-monetary benefit, or the employer decides to provide it because of competition, but people privately can pretty much never haggle for it, not even when they are badly needed. Strange. A possible explanation: business are used to buying stuff with a simple monetary price. As a buyer, you have no other responsibilities than to pay. For example a programming company will not demand that the client gives them a detailed specification, they will gladly write one, for a price. So if anyone comes and tries to sell something, and wants anything else but money, it gets weird. And I figure it is the same for employees.