">> You are in an endless loops of ""maybe""(s).. > No, my point was that your ""maybe"" puts you in an endless loop of ""maybe""s. Please try to keep up. Check the ""maybe""(s): they are all yours! I have no ""maybe"" on Trump and never had one. **I am SURE(!) he will fix the healthcare system and lower all prices and costs. Remember: I voted for him and I support him.** >>But the paranoia and ""end of the world"" folks do not impress me. > Me neither but that doesn't mean global warming is not going to bring a whole lot of expense and instability. No expense and no ""instability"". You just said ""me neither"", you just said it(!), and, immediately, you try to bring paranoia, baseless fears and scare tactics. What ""instability""? Wars will not happen because it's a bit hotter. Hunger will not happen - there's more rain now, and the world produce more food than it can eat, and can produce much more more food if we just bothered. No diseases because it's a bit hot. What expenses? Less fuel to hit homes? Less need to water the fields? What on earth are you talking about? How ""instability"" will happen because it's tiny bit hotter? > You have no idea of the scale of the problem with weather and climate. You are the one who have no idea. I studied the subject very well. Very well! It was far hotter in the world, and far colder in the world, and the world is just fine now, and back then. >> You can't come with one ACTION by Trump you oppose, and you are still against him. > Now you're moving the goalposts. LOL!! LOL!!! I asked you, again, and again, and again, and again, to give me one ACTION by Trump that you oppose. How on earth I ""move goalposts""? (Probably I have more actions by Trump that I oppose than you). > Okay, fine. Here are about a dozen categories of reasons I do not support President Trump. > He is a liar. He is unpresidential. He is a narcissist. [etc] Got it! He's a liar, so you won't believe anything he said, anything he does or anything I say about him. On the other hand, Hillary and the DNC are not liars. So you voted for them. He's ""unpresidential"", but Hillary with her handling of e-mail(s), cheating on debate questions, rigging elections against Sanders, etc, is definitely a ""presidential"" material that you voted for her. He is a ""narcissist"", but Hillary is not with her ""deplorables"" remarks, seeking presidency despite all the scandals and cheating, her ""I should be 50 points ahead"", etc, etc. So you voted for Hillary. **Darling, already since July the whole media, even Fox, are trying to show the Trump lied, unpresidential, etc. And so far? Anything?** **YOU ARE, how can I say plainly, despite wanting a non-liar, presidential, etc president, you voted for Hillary and the DNC, who are the EPITOMY of liars, cheaters, narcissists, unreliable, criminals, untrustworthy. Do you see how your tribalism make you ridiculous?** And meanwhile, Trump deliver what he promised, has yet to on a single investigation, while Hilary, Comey, Lynch, Holder, Podesta etc are all under investigations."