">Collective bargaining existed before the government officially granted people that right. Collective bargaining is an ambiguous term that could refer to many concepts. There is voluntarily agreed to collective bargaining, which has nothing wrong with it, and then there are laws that FORCE the employer to collectively bargain with a union if a union requests it, which is a mandate and violates the employer's contract liberty. >However we've been through that in this country, and child labor, unsafe working conditions, and 80 hour weeks. I [responded](http://www.reddit.com/r/business/comments/117gq5/walmarts_employees_went_on_strike_this_month_for/c6kaesg) to this claim made by another Redditor as well: >The prevalence of child labor was decreasing long before any law was created prohibiting it. Child labor is necessary in poor countries because people are far less productive per hour worked. As productivity increases, parents can afford to send their children off to school instead of working, since their own work is enough to support the family. >Child labor is something that needs to disappear on its own, in response to changing economic conditions. If you introduced a law prohibiting child labor in a poor country like Cambodia right now, it would lead to widespread hardship and an increase in mortality. >In other words, no government mandate created due to union-pressure can possibly lead to beneficial change, since laws that limit people's economic rights, under the assumption that 51% knows what's better for the minority than they themselves do, generally do much more harm than good. Nothing good comes for the country from using the threat of violence (as all laws do) to deny people a right to manage their own property how they see fit. >Like all laws, there is a balance to be struck between individual rights and the common good, and what can be seen as a ""right"" for one can often be seen as a ""right to violate another's rights"" for someone else. There is no game theoretic reason to assume, or empirical evidence that suggests, that violating people's property ownership rights leads to a greater betterment of the common good than would have happened with property ownership rights intact. >>The mighty is those who use the force of government or the threat of violence (e.g. violent strikes) to prevent another party from exercising their contract liberty and firing them. >This is some pretty extreme hyperbole, and hard to take seriously. As history over the last century has shown, it's no hyperbole. Labor unions-backed regulations (soft-socialism) has succeeded in spite of the resistance of employers. >Union membership in this country has dwindled to around 10%, down from around 50% during the middle of the century, and the erosion of the middle class has been the undeniable result. Because unions have destroyed nearly every major industry where they had a natural tendency to form (large scale capital intensive manufacturing operations where large numbers of workers were concentrated in one place). In no union-dominated industries did unions fade due to greater power by employers: vehicle manufacturing, low-value-high-volume consumer-goods manufacturing, ship-building, passenger rail service, US Steel. In all of these industries, the number of unionized employees declined because the industries themselves contracted in the US. >Use the ""force of government""? You know, we may have the right to strike in this country, but there's no law that says a company can't hire replacement workers, indefinitely. The force of government prevents companies from refusing to collectively bargain with a labor union. >Threat of violence? Violent strikes? This is a straw-man if I've ever seen one. Who is threatening violence here? This existed before government laws were created that made legal threats on behalf of employees that want to keep unionized employees employed and force companies to collectively bargain with a union. Now of course the strikers themselves are not directly threatening violence, since they are backed by the force of government. >Objectively, when you look at the wealth disparity in this country, it's pretty hard to argue that the right to collective bargaining has resulted in an unfair advantage for workers. Collectively bargaining doesn't benefit workers in general. It benefits in the short-term, those workers who are employed and unionized, at the expense of long-term wage growth and employment opportunities for the unemployed and non-unionized employees."