I switched from engineering into finance, into an entry level position as an analyst on the investment side. I can tell you about my experience and how I did it. Yes, it is incredibly hard to get a position on the buyside. Investment management doesn't scale well with numbers, adding more analysts typically doesn't improve results (i.e. Buffett and Munger made all the investment decisions at Berkshire Hathaway, the most successful investment team is a two man team running more than a hundred billion dollars of assets). So teams are very small. A large amount of money goes through the hands of very few people, so naturally the pay is very big. The recruiters are not lying when they say there are hundreds of applicants chasing each one of those jobs. I tried asking my friends and family, but being a first generation American, most of the people I know are blue-collar types that work with their hands. I had some success tapping into the alumni network, I got many responses with advice but no interviews. It doesn't help that the finance world is currently shrinking and there are talented people losing their jobs. I had the most success attending my schools career fair. If you graduated from one of the top schools, the firms that are recruiting will still show up. Also, check your schools career office. All the top schools I know of have on-campus interviews. They are generally open to alumni. It is summer right now, but on-campus recruiting season will start in the fall. You should be able to get some interviews through your school. Now the most important thing you need to do is to differentiate yourself. What are you doing right now? Are you working in some other area of finance or a different field altogether? I think the best way to do it (and it is how I did it) is to invest your own money. If you are in an interview and you say you invest your own money, you are pretty much guaranteed that you will be explaining one of your investment theses for the next half hour. This is effectively what you will be doing in the real job if you get it. Firms want to hire someone who can start working, they don't want to pay you that big money only to find that you can't do anything for the next year or two before they cut you. So you have to prove that you can do the job. Interns do it by working for cheap for a summer or two. Someone who graduated already can do it by claiming that they do it on the side, and then backing that up by being able to explaining positions intelligently (you will NOT get the job if it looks anything like /r/investing). There is also something hypocritical if you say that you should be paid boatloads of money because you are capable of managing money well (that is what you are claiming by applying to an investment job) and you don't manage your own money and you haven't formulated any investment theses. Students typically won't be able to do this because they don't have any money to invest, so they get their jobs through the internship route.