Ok, this gives us something to start on. I am owner of a company that our best selling product is government designed. Your position is that there is no profit incentive if government invests in a company. I know from first hand experience that is not true. If government were funding your whole company, and you as an owner had no skin in the game - then yes, that would be true. However, that is not what government does. I have experience from receiving government grants for our own innovation, as well as receiving the right to sell a government designed product. Our company competes with a number of other companies that do the same. This investment in our work has given our company a great boost, which has lead to other ideas and inventions as well as growth and expansion. The end user has gotten the benefit of that too, as the government isn't really good at mass production and sales - but we are. However, if the government hadn't made this investment, we would still be doing what we are doing, it would have just taken us a little longer to get here. You other position is that they only listen to special interests who would like it if the project is as expensive as possible. There is some truth to that, and there are definitely projects where we have seen that, but that is more the exception than the rule. What usually happens is eventually these companies piss off an end user who receives the product which is the result of these bloated contracts. When it gets bad enough, people run to their representatives, and there is a major investigation. I know of a couple of people who have spent time in the Federal Penn, including the owner of another small business in the city where my company is. A lot of times these companies are banned, or are moved to the fringe where they go into a death spiral. Competition is the lifeblood of capitalism, and our company has grown and succeeded because we pick up business all the time from larger companies who bloat and laziness has caused them to be noncompetitive.