"> It's very funny that you call an analysis of the current state of the industry speculation, and then go on to talk about something you think is going to happen..which, by the way, has had six years to happen and hasn't yet. Also, it's as if you don't think first mover advantage exists. Six years is a long time to build up a lead, especially in automotive, where product cycles and development times are so long. I freely admit that my opinion is just opinion/speculation. Anyone who talks about the stock market with certainty is someone not to listen to. > Honestly, look up the words ""vertical integration"" before continuing the conversation. And the word ""Panasonic"" as well. I know all about them. > But wait, I thought you said they were wrong because ""ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANIES"" aren't involved? And that ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANIES know better than them? But I guess the ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANIES don't actually know anything, and they should listen to an idiot on the internet who has so far proven himself to be wrong about everything he's said? Panasonic hasn't yet agreed to put up a penny. They will build batteries they are confident TSLA can sell, that is all. > It seems Panasonic is not as optimistic about the plant as you are. > Well, again, if you listened to the call, which is a pretty basic first step to talking about the quarterly results, which for some reason you insist on continuing to do despite being completely ignorant of them, then you might not be saying such stupid things. Like what? You are the one who insisted Panasonic was putting up a billion dollars, which is a lie. > Panasonic, you see, is a rather conservative Japanese company. This is even mentioned in your article when they talk about plasma displays. This is why they are always measured in their public statements, because that's what Japanese companies do. But, as specified in the call, Panasonic's actions as a partner to Tesla have always been excellent. And if you actually bothered to read your own article, you would see that they've committed to 2 billion cells and 200-300 million for the factory. You know, an ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANY. So tell me when they put up a dollar. > And if you actually bothered to read any other article, you would see that that very same quote of yours was followed up with ""However, Tesla is a very important partner to us and discussions are continuing. We need to look very carefully at auto demand and respond appropriately so of course that means taking a step-by-step approach to investment."" Yes, that is the polite thing anyone would say. > Also, there have been rumors of talks with LG and Samsung should Panasonic not decide to partner. I'm not sure I believe the rumors, and also I think they're unnecessary, because Panasonic will be a full partner in the gigafactory. They know that Tesla has been a huge source of profit for them, and their automotive supply (i.e. Tesla) has been one of the best-performing parts of their company for some time now. Mark my words, Panasonic's investment will end up being approximately $1 billion, all told. You can come back in a few years and check, if you like. We'll see. > You mean, like an ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANY? The ones putting up the money? They haven't put up any money. > So, since your point was so reliant on ACTUAL BATTERY COMPANIES having expertise and specialization and so on, does that mean you're now dropping that point, because you realized your bullshit wouldn't fly, and moving on to another sort of bullshit until one of them sticks? Because if you'd like to fix your ignorance, I can help you with that. But if you wouldn't, as seems to be the case, it seems somewhat like a waste of time to continue trying to explain basic concepts to you. They haven't put up a penny. Here is what people who know about batteries are saying: http://www.thestreet.com/story/12781526/1/williams-shorting-teslas-batteries.html"