"Grad school applications typically have deadlines around December or January, so you're thinking about this at the right time. First, obviously, you should get an idea of where you want to go, and what kind of program. There's plenty of ranking lists online that can help give you an idea. Grad school applications take a non-trivial amount of effort, so most people apply to only 5-10. Next, you'll want to contact potential references. The grad school websites should inform you what type of reference they want, but in my experience these were mostly academic and usually 2-3 per application, finance programs may want more professional references as well. Try to choose the right references for the application, e.g. I applied to financial engineering programs, and would usually have one economics professor and then either a math professor or a statistics professor depending on the focus of the program. Now, check to see if your programs require a GRE/GMAT score (they probably will), and start studying ASAP. There's tons of study materials available both in book form and online, and if you can put the time in you can probably get a decent score with just a few weeks (4-6) of studying. As far as I know, just about every program that accepts a GMAT score will also accept a GRE score, but not necessarily the other way around, so you may be better off studying for the GRE (verify this!). And with all those components complete, you'll basically be done! Some applications will ask for various forms of cover letter, or have other essay questions, so set aside some time to write these as well. Also, if you're looking at Finance Master's programs, I notice that they tend to come in a few varieties. Some set you up for PhDs and are naturally more academic focused, where as ""terminal"" Master's that resemble an MBA will focus on trying to get you a job. Reflect a bit on what you want to accomplish with your degree and figure out the program that's best for that. If you get in to a top school then it won't matter much regardless, but otherwise it is very likely that schools which produce good PhD candidates and research are not necessarily the same schools which place people on Wall Street. Hope that helps :)"