"Senate vs. House Health-Care bills. Summarized from bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-06-22/republicans-health-care-bills-boil-down-to-more-obamacare 1) Reduces subsidies from eligibility from 400 percent of the federal poverty line which is a hair under $100,000 a year for a family of four to 350 percent of the poverty line which is about $86,000. 2) Reduces premium subsidies which determines the subsidy level which should cover about 70 percent of anticipated health expenses -- to one with an actuarial value of 58 percent causing people to opt for plans with higher deductibles. To offset effects on the elderly the bill changes the subsidy formula to account for age. 3) Obamacare's growth subsidy cap on premium subsidies changed from 0.504 percent of GDP 0.4 percent of GDP meaning program cap is more likely to hit cutting subsidies to some groups. 4) Eliminates the individual and employer mandates may destabilize the Obamacare exchanges and subsidies. 5) Restricts the already small abortion coverage. 6) Ends the cost-sharing reductions that lowered out-of-pocket expenditures for people making less than 250 percent of the federal poverty line not funded since Republicans took over Congress. The bill pays the insurers the money they’ve been owed. Ending the program makes Obamacare significantly less attractive for the folks whose policies are so heavily subsidized. 7) States given a great deal more flexibility expedite waiver program with less interference from federal regulators. 8) Eliminates many Obamacare taxes on everything from tanning to high earners. The “Cadillac tax” on pricey employer-sponsored insurance postponed until 2026 ending an attempt to curtail our nation’s hog-wild tax subsidies for employer-sponsored insurance. Presumably, senators are keeping the tax in after Doing so reduces the apparent cost of a full repeal. 9) Market stabilization funds designed to keep the dreaded “death spiral” from happening by dealing with the major problem driving costs on the exchanges: very sick people. Details on this are sketchy, because states are expected to design programs to meet the goal. If it works, it has the potential to substantially improve the sustainability of the exchanges. 10) Winds down the Medicaid expansion funding … but not as fast as the House bill. 11) It also makes people below the poverty threshold eligible to buy exchange policies with subsidies. This coverage is not as generous as Medicaid; it will probably involve substantial deductibles and copayments. But the premiums are capped at 2 percent of family income, which for a single person making exactly the federal poverty line would be about $20 a month. 12) Converts Medicaid to a per-capita allotment rather than an open-ended entitlement. Like the House bill, the Senate bill changes the program to a per-beneficiary grant based on previous spending levels. It’s not the ""block-granting"" of supply-sider dreams, but it’s close. This will give states heavy incentives to keep program growth in check especially with future payment growth will be indexed to general inflation, rather than the higher medical inflation. States can also apply to switch to a block grant formula, or to implement a work requirement for Medicaid recipients."