"Bernie: From what I read, I thought it was something like a fixed % on each. You are right, there does need to be an enforcement agency, however, I do not believe it has to be government. I think SROs like FINRA and SEC need to exist. However, there is no reason to believe that they couldn't exist without government. Please don't even get started on Kansas. Trust me I know it far too well. I do not like Brownback, but his ""tax experiment"" was by no means what he was claiming/republicans claim. He lowered taxes (sounds great) on businesses (wrong policy) mainly LLCs and LPs. While it was nice for some farmers and smaller business owners to not have to pay those taxes. However, there was an actual increase is KS sales tax from 6.15% to 6.5% which will obviously further disincentive buying. It wasn't much of a detaxation for regular people. Here is what I do not understand, if you are going to stimulate growth, it should be done with the consumers. The consumers are what creates the demand for business products/services. I've always been a proponent of expanding the standard deduction, perhaps even adding back county and local sales tax deductions (or other regressive taxes), etc. To all of my knowledge, I don't know of really any big deregulation they have done here. They did not shut down schools, there were schools that had to at some points but that option on the table but I do not believe any ever did. Since the DOE has been created, test scores have virtually been flat despite increasing education spending nationwide by 4-5x. My high school spent tens of thousands of dollars on Macbook Pros and iPads the same year they started having these ""big"" paper shortages. The students screwed around on the computers and tablets, we didn't use them for anything, and besides even if we did. Studies show that using them doesn't really help anyway. Schools/school boards do not know how to appropriate funds whatsoever. There is no reason to believe that increased school funding helps students learn any more than others. In fact more funding per student goes to a lot of inner city schools than rural in the state of KS and they actually school a slight negative return. I agree, and I will if become rich enough to first sustain myself I will, or perhaps I will move to Peter Thiel's seasteading island"