>London Black Cabs are acknowledged globally as the best on earth. Other than the huge cost, I have always had a very positive experience in them. So you are correct, it is not in every city on earth. London Black Cabs are still pretty awful, they are expensive and not particularly innovative. Minicabs throughout the UK are far better in my view, you can book them in advance, pay online, use an app to see where they are and who is coming, or get a call/text etc. In short, minicabs tend to be cheaper and generally offer more efficient service. They are also regulated far less strictly, I could go and start driving a minicab fairly easily, no so much for black cabs. >I have been to 40% of countries in the world, and travel extensively for business and vacations. Taxis are almost universally awful. I have had negative experiences on every continent. Compare them to the uber equivalent though, taxis in Hong Kong are ubiquitous and cheap, but they aren't particularly pleasant, Uber somehow manages to be worse. Uber in Berlin was at best on a par with a normal Cab, in Glasgow it was more expensive. In short uber feels like another minicab firm, the local standard seems more relevant because there isn't a consistent 'Uber' standard. >As a man, I have felt threatened on occasions and realized that no one knows I am in this taxi, I can only imagine what women go through. I haven't (possibly the Philippines once or twice.) but I don't really feel significantly safer in an Uber. >I am no fan of how Uber is run, but the concept is here to stay. Taxis will never be able to compete with the traceability and accountability. Whether it is Uber or a competitor, that is what the world will use. But cab companies already do, I can see who my driver is, what the registration is with my local cab company, moreover I can call the cab company, schedule a pick up for two weeks time for a trip to the airport and know what I'm paying. In short, there is nothing that makes uber particularly special, they are essentially a minicab company with a technological edge that has already been, or is being eroded. >The hijacked the term ride sharing, however the generally accepted definition today is an Uber type service. Uber is trying to hijack it because it suits them to try and distance themselves from the vehicle for hire definition that means they have to comply with licensing, vehicle and employment regulation. Moreover, it's a real shame shame because there is value, both economic, social and environmental in actual ride sharing, it's part of the 'sharing economy' that is actually realisable. >Typically the only people who defend taxis, either very rarely take them, or are drivers themselves. Well, I don't drive a taxi and use them regularly enough, but I'll happily defend some of my local firms because they are pretty decent. I do however understand why people in areas with poorly regulated taxi services might see uber as a positive in that it will disrupt an unnatural and often inefficient monopoly.