The first part of your comment is clearly copy pasted (or parroted) from a cnn type news source i will however grant you the GOP has done an exceptional job with their propagandaand misinformation regarding the ACA, the left has done so as well. The 20 million people added to healthcare is a number they boast and brag about when they dont realize (from a study im having a hard time reproducing so take it with a grain of salt) roughly 65% of those people could afford health insurance prior to the aca just chose not to buy and because of the mandate were forced to. I also know that for me health insurance prior to the ACA was significantly lower roughly 50% cheaper and that doesnt even begin to touch the hikes a lot of people i know saw. So the big difference here is preference because we can both pull information supporting our arguments and you may think youre morally superior to me for wanting to get everyone healthcare by any means necessary whereas i want to make it cheaper and give people the tools and resources to afford it instead of being reliant on theft to receive it. >However, I don't think they are the low tax haven that you think they are. They have some of the lowest income tax rates in the world.Yes i would love to see 0 income tax rates but lower is always better. >I am now owner of a company that does R&D and works with the government. A lot of my knowledge about inventions, and how commercial works with government comes from my own personal experiences. While i do not own my own company or have anything to do with R&D i can for a fact disprove your theory that >Anyone comes to this game with the presupposition that government can't get anything done as well as commercial quickly learns that is not true. As i have and do work on many government contracted sites. Im in construction. And i can tell you from first hand experience the amount of wasted time and money on these sites is absolutely astounding. For instance i worked on a government building a year and a half ago in the western half of the country, this building was meant to service Veterans. Not only was this building over budget by 100% it was also 2 years behind schedule, many people would say that this is the contractors fault but thats only partly true because in a private sector site these contractors wouldnt have lasted more than a month before being replaced. We have both seen the opposite side of the same coin. We both acknowledge the private sector does everything better (for the most part) the only difference is you like the funding to be public (of course you do you make a fucking killing on these government contracts) whereas i want the funding to be private. The private sector will always have a need to innovate and that need will always be filled with or without the government the only difference is the private sector wont keep throwing money at an unsustainable rate like the government does because if they dont see results its not worth funding. Id also like to add you are near the same age as my father who also served in the military and i thank you for your service.