"Last month I spend about 3-4 days totally diving into the Kindle, e-books, DRM, etc. My goal was to basically replace my entire book collection online with books that I could annotate, edit, etc. The result? Kindle and the DRM suck. The pirate experience an order of magnitude BETTER than the Kindle and DRM experience. 1. Not all books are even available on the Kindle or other DRM platforms. Pirated books? Not a problem. I can pretty much get any book I want in a matter of minutes. Sometimes I have to spend a while to find them.. maybe 10-15 minutes. 2. The quality of the DRM books are horrible. For Kindle they use fixed-width bitmap graphics. However, many of the PDF books that I've been using use PDFs and vector graphics which means they look NICE on my 30"" monitor. 4. I can use Skim to edit and manipulate the books .. I can attach annotations, I can copy text out.. I can add bookmarks, I can highlight pages. In Kindle I can do this but it's VERY basic and frankly the highlighting sucks and is hard to use. 5. The Kindle books are handicapped by the publishers and they won't let you actually copy text from them. SOME of the publishers do let you do this but I want a CONSISTENT experience. I don't' want to be reading a book and want to copy a paragraph to a friend only to find out that this is disabled. 6. Some of the magazine editions SUCK.. they are the same price as the news stand one but don't actually include the FULL magazine! And no where on the site does it say this.. some of these do end up getting downvoted in the amazon reviews but I've accidentally purchased a few of these and felt screwed. 7. MANY/MOST of the books you use don't actually have an appendix. They're just flat out stripped/removed. This is because the Kindle pages and the book pages don't line up.. However, in PDF versions they are there and they're working. I think the PDFs are the leaked master copy which they use to print the book. 8. Some of my Kindle books are far inferior to the print edition that I actually own due to misc errors. For example, one of them is missing a whole 2 chapters at the end which were author notes after the book was written but the Kindle version says it's the same ISBN / edition as the one I own. 9. What about Errata / bugs..? If they make a mistake do they give you a NEW copy of the book? For example in #8 that's clearly a bug.. they should have included those two chapters. Do I get a new copy of the book when they fix it? Will they EVER fix it? Do my notes/highlights work with the new version? Do I get to keep the older version. In short.. I do NOT mind paying. In fact I allocated the money to upgrade my entire book collection to electronic. But I'll be damned if i do that now.. the experience is SO bad that I don't want to give them the satisfaction of taking my money for this crap. Further.. e-books could be a REVOLUTION in the way we perceive books. Why are we limiting ourselves to JUST text? Why not interactive graphs, spreadsheets, charts. I should be able to manipulate the examples, change numbers, zoom in, etc. High resolution images for example that look AWESOME on my 30"" display. Video included/embedded directly into the book. Audio and audio commentary by the author. The entertainment industry went this way with DVDs to encourage people to buy this format over the VHS version. We need to do this with audiobooks too! One could do this with HTML5 but it needs to be done right. Some sort of simple .dmg / zip with HTML inside which can be viewed by normal browsers. I'll also say this. I'm not TOO concerned about the DRM. Just in terms of innovation this would be a major step forward. Books and print media is dying.. but we could revolutionize it and EMBRACE the digital publishing medium and really kick ass! EDIT. Holy shit that was long.. the Adderall must have just kicked in! :-=P"