"If I come to your house with a gun and hand cuffs and say, ""you made this much money this year, therefore you owe me this much because I need healthcare/food/ect."" You are considered to be a victim of robbery. If I come to your house with me and five buddies along with a gun and handcuffs, and say the same thing, you are still considered a victim of robbery. If I got the whole neighborhood or say even the whole town to do that, you would be considered a victim of an angry mob. Yet somehow when we vote on it, the non ability of us somehow become the ability of the government. We can't create rights and give them to people. You have picked an interesting topic of Defense R&D, as with people with beliefs like me (Voluntaryist/Anarcho-Capitalist), defense is one of the big topics of discussion because of the free rider problem. To begin our debate with public vs private sector. It is not an argument to say that the technology wouldn't exist without government involvement. Yes, government made it happen, that doesn't mean that it would have never happened with out it. I could name a lot of technologies that we all have come to know and love and say that it is proof that private is better, but that is not necessarily the topic of discussion. We are discussing who can do what better. I would say that the US military has gone way overboard with the amount of technological spend. From what I've seen, the 2017 request is $12.5 billion for total tech spend for the military. For 2016 alone, Amazon spent over $16 billion of their own money, that they required to giving value to their customers. Apple spent $10 billion last year, FaceBook $6 billion, and the list goes on. I will gladly make the argument that all of those dollars are making our lives better than a ""better"" version of a predator drone that will undoubtedly kill just as many innocent lives anyway. Additionally, you quoted my taxes and Bernie Sanders bit at the bottom of your post, but I don't see a response to that."