This just keeps getting weirder. From the press release: >Oncologists currently prescribe a course of cancer treatment based on the anatomical location of the cancer. No, treatment is based on anatomic location, morphology, grade, stage, and molecular profile. >Yet a patient with breast cancer could benefit from the positive results discovered from a patient with lung cancer, if the underlying molecular pathways involving both cancers were the same. Yes. This is already well known (for at least the past decade), and it's why testing for HER2 mutation is already performed on non small cell lung cancer [proof](http://annonc.oxfordjournals.org/content/15/1/19.short). >The inability to utilize genomic sequencing to guide treatment has been due to the inability to convert a patient’s DNA into actionable information in actionable time. This is not really true. You're still going to need to detect the lesion and obtain tissue (biopsy, resection) in order for sequencing to be done, which takes time. And you either have to sequence it yourself or send it out for analysis- which is what they're advocating here. Uploading that information to a central network in no way impacts the time or cost associated with sequencing, except insofar as it saves on postage for sending the results. What this group is trying to do is usurp the business of molecular analysis which is currently performed in a fully satisfactory fashion at individual institutions, and just report that information back to the institution for a huge fee. No institution in their right mind would agree to this, as they would be then paying for something they could in turn bill for by performing themselves. The only difference seems to be that you'd be getting a full genome instead of just the mutations that we currently know to have prognostic or therapeutic significance. Is this good? No. It's way too much information, and has real ethical-legal implications (what happens when we find other mutations?) This is a purely business venture that has very little to do with improving medicine.