"If I were in your shoes (and one time I was), I would not talk ""about what I am doing"" unless I am specifically asked or if it's something that could possibly help the C-level exec.. instead I would talk about what HE is doing. Ask him what problems he is currently facing (in the organization). This will give you insight as to what's currently on his mind and the challenges he's currently trying to overcome -- it will help you in your efforts at the company, if you keep it in the back of your mind that this is what is trying to be achieved by the big guys. Ask him where he sees the company in the long term. This will help reinforce and clear up the ideas you're keeping in the back of your head from the previous question you asked. Ask him why he hasn't gotten to that point already if the goal he mentioned seems like something that isn't that difficult to accomplish. This will pose as a difficult question for himself to formulate an answer to, where he will have to self-evaluate whether or not he is behind the curve or ahead of the game. Mention things you have done well in the past that play into any of the troubles he's currently facing or about to be facing soon -- so he knows he can directly call on you if he needs that particular something done (bonus points if it's a specialization). Don't waste your time on pleasantries and basic discussion. If you do talk about pleasantries because he brought it up, find out his interests and see if you have any in common by location, subject or any shared contacts. The C-level exec you are going to be sitting with, has limited time, but he has chosen to sit with you (and possibly others) when he could be doing other things. Use it to your advantage and ask him questions about why certain things are being done the way they are, especially if you think they're inefficient. You never know, you might just get directly put in charge of fixing those inefficiencies, which, since it's more responsibility, would be a great addition to your resume. Also, research current news involving the company, and mention it (if appropriate, not just out of nowhere). It shows you're on top of the game, maybe not in rank, but definitely in understanding."