"The interesting thing about an FSA is that you have access to your total annual election immediately. After electing to put $200 per month toward your FSA, you can go have a $1,500 surgery on January 3rd and pay with your FSA funds. Then you can leave the company on February 1st, and not owe the company anything. I understand that you don't like that this is the answer, but it is. The employer is on the hook for the full elected liability of an FSA plan as of the first day of the plan year. The employer is also paying admin costs that aren't passed to the employees. You contest that this arrangement could leave current employees picking up the bag for departed employees, but there is no employee liability. FSA plans run at a net cost the the employer (I'm sure there are outlier exceptions however). I disagree with your premise that ""Employees generally dislike that FSA plans are Use-it-or-Lose-it, and also that there appears to be an obvious alternative that would be preferable [..] The employees that dislike the rules of FSA accounts don't fully understand the nuances and surely assume that FSA is a synonym for HSA. Tons of employers offer their employees FSA plans and they are very well received. You can fill full prescriptions off of a debit card on the third day of the year before you've even contributed anything. HSAs are great (I have one), but they require enrollment in a HDHP and you can only spend the funds currently available in your account. These are two huge limitations addressed by FSA plans. You can have a $0 deductible platinum plan with a $2,000 out of pocket max and an FSA debit card for virtually tax free healthcare. The caveat being if you don't use your full FSA election you give it up. In fact, my biggest gripe with the FSA/HSA discussion is that anyone feels the need to claim that ""HSA funds don't expire at the end of a plan year"" as though it's something other than a personal savings account. An FSA is a spending account (or arrangement) which is an entirely different animal. It would be like claiming that IRA funds don't expire, as though they might somehow."