"Not really. They didn't account for the fact that the income would first be spread out over 8 billion people. I don't know if anyone in Keynes time was thinking about dozens of industries closed in America and moved directly to China. Had you suggested that to them I think they would have thought it ridiculous but that is in fact what happened. Also, theories on trade suggest that it makes everyone better off. So if you ask any economist at any given point if more free trade is better they will probably say ""yes"". That was all fine until about the 1980s when computer networks made it possible to globalize supply chains. Suddenly vast CAD/CAM systems sprung up and suddenly you could pay a worker a $1 a day to do what someone in the US was getting $45 an hour to do. The economics of it for corporations were absolutely irresistible and they lobbied hard to make sure noting got in the way (note that free trade pacts passed under both parties). In order to mask the fact that this was happening a giant credit bubble was created in the developed world using the newfound savings of the developing world. Living standards were temporarily maintained in developed countries by borrowing money from the people they had sent their jobs to. The effects of this are all pretty clear. Most developed nations are now burdened under a mountain of debt. Central banks are having a difficult time maintaining enough liquidity to support the illusion of buying power in developed nations that is no longer present without enormous artificial support. Many Americans alive today cannot even remember a time when America's current account deficit was not deeply in the red. So far the only thing propping up developed nations is the use (and threat of use) of vastly superior military force. That hasn't really changed but every day the developing nations encroach a little bit more on the resources of the world for consumption rather than just production. As that happens the hollowed out shells of the developed world start to feel more and more pressured as they come to realize they really don't have much of value to trade. America's biggest exports are food and services. Food is surely important but one farmer can farm like 100,000 acres. And services just means we can export the time of a Wall Street douchebag at a high rate of pay. yippee."