Here are some pros and cons. Note the list is not comprehensive, but should be a good start. Pros: Alternative to Fiat Money supply - it is an international currency and can be thought of as a protection against having your money in dollars or pounds for example. Some people think that it will eventually replace fiat money supply. This is unlikely to happen any time soon. Move money anywhere - Anyone who has an internet connection can download a wallet and receive bitcoins. Route into Altcoin market - A lot of money is being made in alternative cyrptocurrencies such as etherium, often the best way to buy these is with Bitcoin. Potential massive gains - Bitcoin has gone from 1 dollar 7 years ago to over 2000 dollars, some think it may go even much higher in the future. Fixed money supply - Fixed cap of bitcoins, there will never be more than a fixed amount (unless code changes) which is one reason why it has gained so much value. Secrecy - Some cryptocurrencies are anonymous - which means you can hide your wealth and move it about. Negatives: Storage of bitcoins - If you hold your wallet on your computer and lose it without a backup, you have lost everything. If you hold it on an online exchange and they go down/something bad happens you could lose it. Regulation is in its infancy. There is also a pro here - if you have access to your wallet then no one can freeze your account like a bank potentially could. Tax/Legal implications - Legislation against bitcoins could occur and can cause issues for users. Tax implications can be confusing and an issue. Massive swings - price can go up massively and also down massively - it is not currently a stable investment. Negative ties - Some people associate bitcoin with money laundering and buying drugs - slightly unfairly as it is nothing you can't do with cash (and cash doesn't have a permanent record of your transaction) - but it does have this negative connotation. Summary. Could be worth investing in bitcoin, could potentially make good gains. Could also lose everything or get in trouble with authorities if they suspect you of financial crime. I wouldn't invest anything you couldn't afford to lose and I would be mindful of the risks.