>Dollars to donuts.. I'd be willing to bet you have a pretty good boss there. ..and she (my boss) left 6 months later for a better job. Now I report to a clueless idiot. He has no experience in our industry but was hired because he was part of the good old boys referral network the CEO has going on. He spent his time flipping companies for living prior to that. Now the veneer is starting to come crashing down, despite me trying to make my boss look good for these past ~2 years. He's desperately trying to find a corporate controller (interviewing) to dump his mess onto as I type this. People external to the department are starting to gather he's all buzz words and power points and no substance. We were bought out by a bigger company recently and he can't hide behind his usual bullshit. My new boss dropped the bombshell today that the girl who was in my position 3 years ago (but quit and took a managers job at a rival company through connections) in now a candidate for the corporate controller position. His reasoning hinged almost completely on the justification that she is already well like here and is familiar with the company. The girl doesn't even have a college degree. Let alone a masters. She left a tax mess on her way out that I've spent the last 3 years trying to fix from an administrative standpoint. Apparently the guy who kept my boss from looking like a total idiot (me) isn't worth mentoring up to the next level. But some random person with no college degree (but connections), and holes in her understanding of our line of work is a serious candidate for a promotion. It's amazing to watch the bad decisions compound themselves into bigger and bigger problems. My boss inherited a relatively well oiled accounting department and turned it into an audit nightmare. He doesn't know half of what goes on, on a daily basis but feels the need to change processes arbitrarily without understanding WHY we do what we do and how it relates to our industry and external compliance, let alone GAAP. It's quite apparent this ship is sinking. I'm trying my best to get off it now as of today. Trying to promote someone with less work experience and education over me was the last straw. The only good decision he made was realizing this girl's resume is a bunch of titles with no substance and realizing she wasn't a serious candidate, an hour after pissing me off calling me into a meeting to announce the joyous news.