"What you charge them depends on what kind of use you want them to have of the house. Your use of the term ""roommate"" implies you're imagining, well, a roommate-type situation where everyone has full access to all common areas. This is the usual situation when multiple people jointly rent a house that none of them owns. In this situation all the roommates are essentially equals. But if you own the house and are renting it out, you can do whatever you want. A lot of people would not look for ""roommates"" but for ""lodgers"" or ""tenants"" --- you rent one room to a person, and you decide what the terms are for their use of the rest of the house. That means you get to decide if/when they use the kitchen, if/when they get to use your dishes, what they can do in the back yard, etc. In this situation the roommates are not your equals. You own the property and you set the terms for everyone else. (To clarify after reading the other answer: by ""not your equals"" I don't mean to imply that renters aren't equal as human beings to the landlord or should be treated as lowly peasants or anything like that. I just mean that they need not have equal decision-making powers with regard to the housing itself.) I would say the big difference is the social dynamic: personally, I wouldn't feel comfortable renting out rooms to ""roommates"" unless I was quite sure I would get along with them --- basically, the kind of people I would actually rent with, not just rent to. If you do rent roommate-style, and everyone has essentially equal access to all the facilities of the house, I'd say it's reasonable to split all house expenses roughly equally (with perhaps some adjustments for differences in amenities, like if one person has a larger bedroom than others). If you rent tenant-style, where you're not expecting them to be your buddies, the best way to determine a reasonable rent is to find other people renting similar rooms and see how much they're charging. Craigslist is a great way to do that; you can also ask around to people you know."