"> I didn't ask for those services or that infrastructure. That sounds painfully like the ""I didn't ask to be born"" argument. I am sure you are mature enough to realize that we don't get to choose where we are born, or what responsibility we inherit. I am sure there are millions of people born in third world countries who would feel for your horrible plight! > I can choose Crest toothpaste and you can still get Colgate. Ahh, but either exist without society and the stability of civilization? While Democracy and a Republic are imperfect, they are a sight better than a Theocracy or a monarchy. > they are literally saying I think you should be forced to live under their rule/my beliefs. Which is immoral. We can have the luxury of being able to talk about ""morality"" of govern and rule while living in civilized society. Kind of hard to imagine you making money on stock, when there is no infrastructure. > doesn't mean that without the military/DOD we wouldn't be where we are with drones. True. However, it is hard to deny that the military first developed drones. That argument is similar to listening to a trust fund baby tell you how they would be just as rich as they are now even if they hadn't inherited millions.. Or that a Christian would still be a Christian even if he were born in Iran.. Statistics tell us otherwise. > A lot of my income comes from trading stocks That is very cool, and something I find of interest. I want to get more into this, having made very small money with individual stocks. FNME after the crash, etc. Very simple stuff. I admire what you do. I though I don't think he is speaking about the same thing. The speculation he was talking about was guys like Goldman Sachs, etc., basically sold off bad assets and then bet against them. Not to mention the implicit selling of fraudulent mortgages. However, these are the options I believe he was referring. I do not remember reading about a blanket option policy, especially seeing as crucial they are to the commodities market."