>In America, the government is ours It's not, not in the slightest. This is the biggest misconception that the public has. >We vote for all the people in it On a rigged ballot in a rigged election where only a vanishing fraction of a percent of the people who make up the government are voted on and even fewer are accountable for their actions. >It is within our power to make it what we want and it is our responsibly to keep it functioning properly A machine designed to grind up humans can't be fixed by changing it's parts. It can only be dismantled and a new machine constructed with a different purpose. >To restrict the power of the US government is to reduce the power of the American people to determine the kind of society we want to live in I see it oppositely - to empower the government is to reduce the power of the American people to determine what kind of society we want to live in. The very concept of government simply gives excuse to the violent and wealthy to justify their use of violence and wealth to rule over the majority. > I do not want to live under the tyranny of huge multinational corporations who only care that I work and consume. I do not believe that any corporation would be able to wield any tyranny so great as governments do, as corporations are far more fragile and vulnerable than they would have you believe, and giant multinationals are utterly dependent on the protections provided by the government. Like dinosaurs could only exist because there was so much oxygen in the atmosphere, giant multinationals depend on government for sustenance and support. >For the past 40 years, as we have been gradually moving towards a more laissez faire philosophy There is absolutely nothing laissez faire about our government, we live in a more legislated, judicated, regulated society than ever in the history of man. No person on earth could understand even the tax code if they devoted their entire life to it, which is only a fraction of the codification that all persons are presumed bound to. >Tax cuts for the uber rich, blanket free trade agreements with 3rd world countries, and deregulation have caused corporations get much larger and far more powerful than they were a generation or two ago. And yet all of these things are acts that can *only* be provided by the hands of the government. Corporations are like a vine that grows up the tree of government - strike down the tree, and the vine dies too. >decide they want something else and to vote accordingly Anything that could possibly result in a good outcome would never, under any circumstance, be allowed to be added to the ballot. You cannot fix a government that has the power to decide what can be done to itself. That's why you have to break the services provided by the government into individual service providers that sell their services on a free and open market, and let the public decide what they value and what they don't want. Humanity can't be free until we disabuse ourselves of the fallacy of the necessity of government.