"In studying the great ""successes"" in business, it's clear that those who do the best have unlimited creative and business ideas, not just one idea, but many ideas all day long everyday. No matter what you decide for your current idea, document (write down) your process of each step that you took from idea to inception and track one or two key metrics alongside, so your list would look like this: 1. Socialize idea, goal revenue $0, total cost $0, time 26 hours 2. monitor money invested, costs, and hours of your time 3. Brainstorm: What's the quickest way to have one paying client 4. How will I track my customers? 5. How will I connect and communicate with my customers? 6. And on and on. From having an idea to implementation to even making money or a profit is quite simple, straightforward, and any book, mentor or online free content can show you how. What is ""hard"" is maintaining motivation, stamina, and creativity for when REAL challenges come up, because they will! Competition swoops in, in a way you that you (and the sage commenters at Reddit) couldn't have predicted, you are audited by the IRS and then owe way more in taxes than you expected from four years ago, you are sued for a small claims or worse, or you simply get bored or inspiration strikes in your heart on another great idea. Problems like this require REAL and thoughtful ""creativity and implementation"" on demand, all day, everyday. This is what starting a business is really about. Tracking your steps means that you can easily and quickly review what you've done and backtrack or try another idea instead of wallowing in mistakes, missteps, or hard problems. It's really much harder than it sounds, but once you can invent more ideas to solve a problem than there are problems, you can overcome most challenges. The framework is that, you want to start a business because it serves your customers, brings them enough value and delight to pay you, and you have a way to make a living yourself and/or sell eventually or have some ""exit strategy."" You want an exit strategy so that your business doesn't become a poor paying ""job"" that you're a slave to. Because it does, and if it does, a job is way easier and makes you more money. Write down each step of your business building process, track your costs, revenue, and time, and have fun. Then, you have enough energy to ""pivot"" or change your ideas because you've set up a repeatable, improvable, process to run your next idea through with modifications along the way. You keep retrying your process for your ideas until your lifestyle is paid for (your salary) or something even greater monetarily."