"Disclaimer: Mozilla employee here. Not speaking for Mozilla, of course, all opinions are my own and my own alone. And I'm not in any way connected w/ the negotiations w/ Google (or anyone else, for that matter) so I don't have any inside information about either Google or Mozilla's stance on the matter. A lot of what you're saying here makes sense, fab13n, but there's one thing that isn't quite right in my mind. You say that Google ""subsidized"" Firefox. That's not at all how I'd describe the relationship. Yes, it's to Google's advantage to have the web as the platform, and before Chrome became such a player having FF around as a competitor to IE was a good move. But as I understand it this is a business deal, pure and simple. FF's market share may currently be on the decline, but there is still somewhere in the neighborhood of 500,000,000 (that's half a billion) Firefox users out there. That's a lot of eyeballs seeing Google as the default search engine and the default home page. Which means a lot of Google searches, which means a lot of Google revenue. I don't know how much they make from that, but I'd guess it's a whole lot more than the $100,000,000/yr they've been paying for that privilege. Now if FF no longer defaulted to Google, they wouldn't lose *all* of those users. Some people would still switch to Google as the default, and lots of people would just type ""google.com"" in the address bar, or make it their home page. But a lot more people just go w/ the default than you'd first guess. I think that if Google bailed on some renewal of the deal, they'd see a noticeable dip in their traffic, w/ a resulting dip in revenue. This relationship has never been about philanthropy, it's about the money, as usual. For this reason I'm not gonna stress out too much about an article that seems to be little more than speculation. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe a new deal will fall through. But I'm going to wait until I hear that from someone who actually has inside information before I start freaking out about it."