Point being, the problem hasn't been fixed. The deficit went from enormous in 2009 to simply large today. It's never going to be paid back. The main issue to consider is that today the United States is the third largest oil producer in the world and the largest natural gas producer, thanks to hydraulic fracturing most of this surge happened during the Obama administration, spurred on by relatively high energy prices. [Without the fracking boom, the US economy would still be considered in a recession:](http://economics21.org/commentary/oil-and-gas-boom-propels-gdp) >Without the $300-$400 billion yearly increase in output from oil and gas production, economy growth would still be negative. Manhattan Institute senior fellow Mark Mills shows the extent these industries have contributed to U.S. growth in his new report, “Where the Jobs are: Small Businesses Unleash Energy Employment Boom.” The US manufacturing sector also benefits from this indirectly, as low energy costs thanks to suddenly abundant natural gas keeps domestic production affordable. Without the fracking boom, the US economy would be in a European type situation. [In fact, European companies move their manufacturing capacity to the US, citing low American gas prices.](http://www.ibtimes.com/natural-gas-boom-attracting-manufacturing-us-overseas-take-advantage-cheaper-fuel-1582512) The problem with all of this is that we know that fracking is not sustainable. It depends on very high oil prices, which consumers simply can't afford to continue paying. Without oil prices rising, the industry is forced to enter further and further into debt. Part of the reason oil prices are so high in the first place right now is because of speculative traders, who expect oil prices to rise higher in the future, which is unlikely to happen. When Obama claimed that there is 100 years worth of natural gas in the US, he was wrong. If he really believes that story himself, it's going to lead him to take bad decisions, by basing an economy on hypothetical cheap energy that won't be there in the future. The GDP contribution by the fracking industry is going to evaporate, at which point you're left with a massive debt you can't pay back.