I think you raise a very good point here. It is a very well-known fact that the US is not a leader in automated manufacturing. Europe has traditionally been the place that consumes the majority of the automated manufacturing equipment that, in turn, comes out of Japan. Japan specializes in the manufacture of automated manufacturing equipment and has since the US ceded this market to them in the 1950s offering the Japanese access to the technology created at General Motors called ladder logic and programmable logic controllers. These technologies were created from scratch on the shop floor at General Motors at a time when there was a saying that what is good for General Motors is good for the America. This was back before semiconductor transistors were affordable. Those early manufacturing robots actually used arrays of electromechanical relays and ladder logic which is still used till this days in the robots that come out of Japan is still based on metaphorical relays although they are now virtual constructs. The Japanese ran with the tech and now many people believe that the Japanese invented it. Certainly they refined it over the years but the early work was handed to them in part as an effort to win them over from their potential allegiance with the Soviets. Japan was always a much larger lynch-pin than either Korea or Vietnam where the actual military battles went down. What was really scary to America was losing Japan and the transfer of robotics technology to the Japanese was part of the arrangement to keep them cozy with the US military empire. But the largest customer was not within Japan. The actual sales of equipment went to the Europeans. That's where automated manufacturing is currently at its peak. However, things have been rapidly changing and for over a decade the fastest rising automation market has been China. Currently Foxconn or HongHai the large contract manufacturer famous for their Apple contracts is in the process of building an automation base in the middle of Taiwan. If you want jobs in automated manufacturing technology you should be studying Chinese as well as microcontrollers.