"Listen the fuck up. I'm about to tell you how to get a job in one of the most competitive industries in the fucking country. I did what I'm about to fucking tell you, and it fucking worked. I'm a civil engineer by degree. After a year of slaving away and a raise that hardly kept up with inflation, I got fed the fuck up. Here's what I did. Open up your browser. Chrome is the best, but Netscape will do. Now go to that fucking search engine that owns the rest of them.. Bin--- I mean Google. Now search some variation of ""finance firm (insert city)"" or ""private equity (insert city)"". Your goal here is to find the firms or companies around you that you're interested in getting a job with (probably fucking all of them at this point). Now.. You've got all these fucking firms that field applications from little shits like you all fucking day long. People always say it, ""You gotta stand out"". What better way to peacock their asses than to e-mail the CEO/Managing Director of the bitch. What's that you say? You don't have their e-mail address? Yeah. Yeah you do. Use the website address as the domain of the e-mail and try a generic jdoe@ or john.doe@ or john@ or johnd@ . One of them will work somewhere between 82%-83% of the time. Now to the content of the e-mail. Don't fucking ask for ""potential employment opportunities"" and don't be a cocky bitch and tell him how qualified you are to get his coffee.. Ask him what he does for a living and how you're really interested in what he does (asset management, fixed income, mortgage trading, lean hog trading, PE, VC, angel investing, M&A). The more specific this is, the better. Now craft an e-mail that basically says this: Dear Fuckstick (whatever his name is), I'm a college grad with a degree in something that you give no fucks about. During school, I came to love finance and got an internship at MS. Now, I've been reading books and doing my own DCF modeling training.. Maybe learning some coding (make shit up). I don't know what part of finance I want to dive into, but I do know that you're successful as fuck and I wanna suck your dick while I ask you questions becuase you're the smartest mother fucker in the room and I wanna be just like you. Can I buy you a cup of coffee or lunch and pick your brain apart? Hugs and handjobs, Some kid I did something like this for about 6 months, met with 15 powerful and smart ppl (and very coincidentally found out that there's a ponzi scheme going on in my city).. One of them gave me a job.. Now go out and don't fucking blow it.. Unless they specifically ask."