"I think that there is insufficient infrastructure to support a company the size of GM selling only electric cars. They would be making a huge assumption that people actually want what they're offering, and that the vast majority of the US will have the infrastructure to support it in a meaningful way. Imagine if ~~Pentium~~ Intel said, ""You know what, we're only going to make cell phone processors from now on. Cell phones are the future, and they're more energy efficient, so that's all we'll be making in 5 years."" Do you really think that so many people will stay loyal to the brand, rather than jumping to AMD or some other competitor who actually makes full-size processors, that their business will stay afloat at its current size? I'm also going to guess that the segment of people who 'buy American' and are loyal to General Motors as a company has a pretty small overlap with people who want a glorified golf cart. What about all the people that need big work trucks with hauling power that can run all day? Sounds like they're being left out in the cold, and I'm sure Ford would be thrilled to pick them up with the gas-guzzlingest trucks they can produce. Throwing away an entire segment of your customer base isn't a very strong move when you're trying to keep a business afloat. Hydrogen fuel cells sound nice, but I haven't seen any proof that the technology has been developed enough to actually run a car in normal day-to-day. They're making a promise that nobody has delivered on. Electric cars are a fine offering *in addition to* the internal combustion engines that still run the world. But to replace them completely? They're nowhere close to that, and the expenses to get that sort of project into full swing would bankrupt GM even if poor sales don't. I think the big mistake is that people are looking at Tesla's success and attributing it to a huge consumer thirst for electric cars, rather than to the savvy marketing and hype that formed around Elon Musk. It's a cult of personality. People want a Tesla because it's cool; they don't want a Leaf because it's so darned economical. GM obviously doesn't get that."