"here's an all-too-common anecdote which gives me that impression: Executive summaries, PowerPoint etc. have slowly made most leaders slow and ineffective at dealing with change. I worked in a company that was adamant to continue to produce a DSL modem/Wifi Router/In-Room movie service box as their next product that would be installed per room into a Dslam on site in hotels. When I tried to explain to them people are just going to download porn online, cat-5 and a few Wifi routers are 1/10th the price and a Dlam is a pain in the troubleshoot over the phone they just ignored me. Why? Well they said they had been with the company for far longer, seniority was their excuse to drive a company into the ground. They never gave me one technical or analytical reason why their monstrosity of a project was actually worth pursuing, the actually thought they knew more about technology than their engineers, technicians and tech support because they had been sitting in rooms listening about technology at maybe a 10th grade level for 30 years. Every one of them had business degrees, even the CTO but that is not too bad on its own. It was the fact that they had never ventured out of their academic discipline. Their book shelves, if they had any, were filled with popular management books, self-help guides and dieting books. Oh man, sorry for the long rant, I hated that place. TL;DR: Management in MBA-led technical companies after a certain amount of time imho just becomes a bunch of deluded, self-righteous good old boys that will drive your company like 60 year old drunk frat boys at the wheel of a school bus. my background is in computational bio, which is close to economics math-wise. Let me do a play-by-play takedown of those things, and their dependency on context. 1) communicating with stakeholders How is this different from communication skills generally? stakeholders are not a homogenous group, so the statement is a derp. 2)negotiating goals much like the first, this is some ""communications"" herpderp. Key point is that understanding goal feasibility is dependent on experience with the system those goals measure, so this fake skill splits between expertise(as I mentioned) and bullshitting(aka ""communications""). 3)Developing a strategy falls under expertise because it is most essential to understand technical feasibility. You cannot delegate tasks well unless you understand exactly how to perform those tasks. 4)**leading** an organization to accomplish said goals. the first word made your definition recursive, sweetie"