>If you define Netflix as an upstart then I can already see that we don't agree on the same premise I'm not really saying Netflix is an upstart. But the streaming service didn't really start until 2008. It took out Blockbuster plus a hundred other brick and mortar stores, and even Walmart gave up on competing against it directly. In the past 15 years of its life, it's done very, very well against competitors who more than three times as old as it. >Do you really think Youtube or Netflix will be able to produce a quality show? I haven't said Youtube or Netflix will be the producers. They are obviously distributors. That is my point! Currently the networks are in this netherworld where they produce a little and distribute some.. this will not last. The creative people will make good stuff with capital backing, then it will be distributed either in a monopolistic manner or over a dozen or more channels. The quasi wold the networks live in won't last, torrents will see to that. Monopolistic delivery will depend upon annual payments (monthly subscriptions and ads). Mass delivery will depend upon per item billing, ads, or viewer input. >TV will still be around 50 years from now In the sense you can sit down and turn on a screen and see stuff. But when I do that, there isn't anything I want to see. I have to wait or plan on when to sit in front to enjoy myself. That isn't going to last. Consumers want stuff on their own schedules, not the networks. So, there will be unlimited channels of stuff (like the Seinfeld channel). The only content consumers will plan for is sports and special events (really, more sports). Sports not live may as well be dead. Still, the sports content providers will find the internet very profitable, try NFL.com and see what it costs. >In the end, people do not want to watch cheap low-quality comedy on their iPhones Actually, people would love to access shows they pay for on any of their devices. I'd love to be at the gym and see something streamed onto my iphone as effortlessly as on my TV at home or PC in my office. That's exactly what consumers want. The streaming service will detect my device and send me an appropriate steam quality.. obviously my iphone needs less quality than my 50 inch TV. > I don't see the logic and destroying TV No one talked about destroying TV, just that the content providers will be different. Consumers will still be watching stuff on TV.. at home, at the bar, wherever. It just won't be CNN or NBC like we know them today. Or, it will be if they figure out how to give consumers what they want. >people will always consume the cheapest form of entertainment That's not really true. Seinfeld was produced fairly cheaply (except actor and writer salaries), go look at some episodes.. they look cheap by today's standards. But cheap production doesn't mean the content is cheap. If you want Seinfeld.. and people want to see him, then you have to pay. Same for Beatles music (one song in a movie will cost you at least a million dollars). People want entertaining content. Howard Stern does well on pay radio. So does Rush Limbaugh on free radio. Each has a different business strategy, and each succeeds.