Blockchain, the shared database technology that powers cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin, has over the past three years developed an almost unchallenged reputation as the next big thing in finance and technology. Many prominent financiers, technologists and entrepreneurs have staked their reputations and fortunes on it. Take Blythe Masters, the former JPMorgan executive who is attributed with creating the credit default swap. After she joined Digital Asset Holdings, a blockchain start-up, in March 2015, she said that the technology should be treated as seriously as the development of the internet in the early 1990s. And investors did exactly that. Up to $1.74bn has been invested in blockchain ventures to date, $796m of that since the beginning of 2016, according to data tracked by industry media company Coindesk. But as investment increased, so did the hype. Almost everything, from tracking tuna to managing medical records, has been touted as in line to benefit from the technology. Claims about blockchain’s potential range from the outrageous (the end of poverty) to the more mundane and operational (cost reduction in repo clearing and real-time settlement). Yet executives at blockchain-investing companies have rarely been able to explain what it was that blockchain would be enhancing in their businesses or why. “You’ll have to ask my tech associate,” has been the invariable answer. When asked what makes blockchain so exceptionally useful, the answers ranged in nature from “it’s a compression algorithm, and makes data storage cheaper” to “it enhances security and can’t be hacked”. Neither assertion is strictly accurate. But the confidence demonstrates the scale of mythmaking in the industry. By 2016 the unchallenged claims were so out of whack with reality that even Gartner, the information technology adviser that created the hype cycle curve, had put blockchain near the top of its “peak of inflated expectations” section. Has blockchain hype stood the test of time? Or does the next phase in the Gartner hype cycle — “the trough of disillusionment” — beckon? We are either there already or about to arrive. Exhibit A: the suddenly diminished use of the term “blockchain” in the marketing of many of these ventures. The latest vogue is for distributed ledger technology (DLT) or shared permissioned databases. The linguistic pivot reflects an industry-wide realisation that blockchain has to be adapted for the real world. For the most part, blockchain as used in the crypto currency field cannot square with the demands of regulated industries that value privacy, cost-control, scale, competition, autonomy, legal recourse and compliance. By now almost all blockchain ventures have absolutely nothing to do with blockchain as it was originally described or used in bitcoin. Exhibit B: the realisation that getting competing companies to co-operate on data sharing and storage is hard. Collaboration comes with oligopoly risk, lack of autonomy and loss of privacy. Small surprise some of the biggest co-operative ventures such as R3 have been losing members this past year. The Bank of Canada, meanwhile, officially abandoned its DLT experiment in May, stating that “at its heart, there exists a fundamental inconsistency or tension between a centralised wholesale interbank payment system, as we have now, and the decentralisation inherent in the DLT”. Nothing is more indicative of a change in sentiment, however, than a sudden rise in scrutiny. Simon Scorer, from the Bank of England’s digital currencies team, noted in a blog post last week that there is scope to make DLT systems more compatible with centralised environments. The problem is “by adapting DLT in this way, you move further away from the principles for which it was originally designed”. And if that is the case, why bother?