Well, it is a negative point of view, but nobody in the history of money has ever loaned money because they like you. I suppose you could paint it as an honest point of view. All money lending is for profit. If you have a high score, you are very likely to repay your loan because you are lower risk. We always hear lower risk.. but the risk is that they won't make money off of you. I think that just like we buy previously owned vehicles cars instead of used cars, and we banks call them service fees instead of junk fees, our credit score discusses our credit worthiness instead of profitability But none of that means you can't benefit from it. It isn't a fear tactic, it is a way to judge each other. You probably pay interest and fees to keep it high, but that is price of lending. I think the questioner has a negative view of credit (which I suppose is fine and is their right, I will defend their right to an opinion) but the way we do and judge credit is neither evil or benevolent. I could certainly agree that more transparency would be good, but only for honest folks. If the credit bureaus made it public how they judged us, there would be a new industry for people who want to game the system. Update Since it always will cost to use credit, and using credit is the only way to prove your a low credit risk, it will therefore always cost money to raise your credit score. However the return on investment is exemplified in this question: a person with no credit was able to get a loan, but at serious out of pocket cost. Later, after establishing credit at a price of real money, he was able to secure a nearly identical loan for considerably less cost (in terms of interest paid) because he had proven himself worthy. When I say proven, I mean paid interest. There is nothing wrong with questioning the system, change only occurs when people question the status quo. And for sure our current system is not perfect, but like many employed systems while it is terrible but there is nothing better.