The justification for an act typically comes after the decision is made. People operate under a fairly universal set of instincts and social behaviors, so I think condemning him for this behavior directly is short sighted. I would ask instead, why do people feel that cheating organizations like target is so emotionally easy? I would wager that burdalane is not the sort of person who would steal his neighbors unlocked bike from his porch or hustle a man for bus fare, so what is different? We seem, (generally, as a population) to have less emotional investment in strangers than ourselves, even less in people from other cultures, and even less in animals. We will fight hard to save the lives of 5000 of our soldiers, less hard to save a million of their civilions, and we certainly don't give a fuck about taking a bee's honey or killing a chicken and eating it (again, generally). I would propose that organizations like big box stores fall somewhere between animals and foreign peasants as far as our feelings of responsibility towards them. It is a little more complicated than that because obviously a big box store supports the lives of a certain number of people, but if a big box store were delicious and did not support people I would wager it would not survive for very long. So the defining difference seems to be whether or not you are a person who makes a rational decision that the store provides more good for your people unmolested or if it is a net harmful force, whether you have strong ingrained emotional belief structures regarding cheating or therft, and whether your rational mind supercedes your emotional decision making (mine rarely does, though I try). A person who thinks that they do more harm to the population than good even with a strong sense of the wrongness of stealing might steal from the store even though they would never steal from another person. They would be completely morally justified in this act. Similarly, a person who thinks that the store does more good than harm, and does not steal from the store regardless of whether or not they think stealing is wrong would also be morally just in their actions. A person who thinks they do no harm to the community but has no negative emotional connection to the act of theft might steal from both the store and their neighbor. They would obviously not be justified. A person with a strong sense of the wrongness of stealing which supercedes their rational decision regarding the value of a big box store will not steal, but they may not be morally justified in the decision, depending on their rational take. I think I fall into the first category. I think it is wrong not to do harm to an organization like target when it is possible to do so, yet I generally don't go about this by stealing because getting caught would be much worse than whatever harm I could do by jacking a few dollars worth of merchandise. This offer allowed a means of theft without getting caught, and had I been aware of it I probably would have availed myself of it. As it stands I just work extremely hard in the field of biochemistry with the hopes that one day I will contribute to technologies which will allow humans to live and thrive without having to buy food, clothes, medicine, or shit from target.