"> If I come to your house with a gun and hand cuffs and say, ""you made this much money this year, therefore you owe me this much because I need healthcare/food/ect."" Okay, so your argument is that taxes are illegitimate because they pay for services for others. Obviously I disagree, because in your example your money is *only* paying for services for other people. However, the reality is that we the minute we are born we benefit from living in a civilized society with services and infrastructure that was created by those who have paid taxes in the past. Your example is faulty because it assumes you receive no benefit from the taxes that the government demands of you. > Yes, government made it happen, that doesn't mean that it would have never happened with out it. Possible, but we will never know. I think we agree that GPS does provide a valuable service, and it was created by government. This being one of thousands of examples of government innovation that has improved everyones lives, and provided the foundation for more innovation on the commercial market. It is possible that it would come to be in some form without government investment through taxes, but we know it *did* become reality through government through taxes. > I would say that the US military has gone way overboard with the amount of technological spend. I would agree, to an extent. I would like to see investment in other areas, but that is what our elected leaders currently find of value. > From what I've seen, the 2017 request is $12.5 billion for total tech spend for the military. I am not sure where that number is coming from. I know at one point JEIDDO by itself spent over $1T in R&D on the IED problem. I know that DTRA funds a couple billion dollars worth of R&D by itself too. Then you have groups like DOE, which do a lot of R&D on defense projects as well. I think that number might be off. Drone technology was another example that you used. How much do you think the Amazon delivery drone service was influenced by DOD R&D into drones? I have a buddy that I served with who worked at DTRA after he got out who now works at Amazon.. > Bernie Sanders bit Sorry, I think it may have got cut. I was going to ask what part of his tax plan would have added to your personal taxes?"