"Of course there can always be _some_ ways you can integrate some amounts of social responsibility into product, but I don't think that's the point he's making. Social responsibility would be called ""business best practice"" if it improved the bottom line. It is inevitable that there are times when social responsibility and business goals diverge, and at that point given two companies that are in the same market space, the one who bets against society will win. This is the sort of thing that _must_ be handled in law, and absolutely cannot be handled by allowing the free market to work because the free market will not discover ethics, it will discover that ethics don't matter in an environment that doesn't require them. It's the reason any claim that business does best when there are no regulations is absolutely false. If a company can make more by polluting and you don't have regulation that says clearly ""it may cost more, but we require you to compete by also being non-pollutiong"", then you should expect the market to converge on pollution as ""best practice"". Removing regulation won't allow business to sort this out, it will allow business to not care that they are polluting. There is the notion of a B-corp that is organized for the purpose of trying to be good guys without being sued. but it doesn't assure that they will have a fair stake int he market. It just allows them to fail without getting sued by stock holders. Basically if everyone is not required to be that level of good guy, though, B-corps are basically indulging unilateral disarmament. Sure, they can make a case that ethics matter, and that might work, but they don't need B-corp protection for that. If making the case that ethics matter was going to win in the market, any corporation could do it. For more thoughts, so I don't have to drone on here, see my articles [Fiduciary Duty vs. The Three Laws of Robotics](http://netsettlement.blogspot.com/2009/02/fiduciary-duty-vs-three-laws-of-robotics.html) and [Losing the War in a Quiet Room](http://netsettlement.blogspot.com/2012/01/losing-war-in-quiet-room.html)."