"More costs are going to be put on the consumer. But that is something that would happen all the time. Originally those systems were not built with the expectation that average life expectancy would jump from almost a factor of a third (60 to 80 years, if you wonder why the age of retirement is 65 and not more or less, check out Bismark and Kaiser Wilhelm on that subject). Additionally, the current age population pyramid of the west (and asian soon to come) is put an increasing pressure on the cost of healthcare. Now, to me the biggest issue with the US is the belief that market driven economies will always lower prices. The problem is that the insurance companies in this country form an oligopoly with the goal to make profits. Now, here is the important question: is healthcare a ""need"" or a ""want""? If it is a ""want"" then someone can live without it but if you have an accident or anything of that type, then is it still a ""want"" or a ""need"". You can live without TV all your life and nothing bad may happen to you. No healthcare and then you can get screwed for your life. Because people will feel compelled to save themselves and be brought to the hospital, those who can afford it or need it will pay for it. Thus you have an automatic pressure on prices as it is used by a smaller pool of people than if everyone in the country was paying for it independent of income. And because the people buying health insurance feel they need to have insurance, their price elasticity of demand will become inelastic (the price may change a lot but the amount of demand won't change much). So, if i'm a private insurance company, I will charge as much as I can because I know that people will be willing to pay more for the same healthcare cost. The European system will simply be a cheaper option than the US because it concentrates a larger pool of payers and is not aimed at profits. Additionally, if there were quality issues in the healthcare provided this would have been seen long ago if you compare the amount of money spent in the US and Europe on healthcare. In Europe the cost of healthcare is theoretically only the government spending. In the US it is both gvt and private spending. Tell me what you think"