">I hear lots of interesting stories about teaching. The most recent involves an experimental program where the teacher performance isn't graded on student outcomes but how well they're following the narrative defined by the program. Every few years teachers are handed new programs that the district curriculum people bought and told ""you're going to teach $subject using this program now!"" (sometimes those programs work better for different groups of students - the ones that it was evaluated with do great, the ones in different neighborhoods are failed by the program) The programs are implemented district wide and the teachers are told not to deviate from the programs. Nothing really ""new"" there at all. And it isn't ""local control"" -- it is the opposite: standard ""central planning"", typically driven by Federal and State ""Department of Education"" bureaucrats in combination with Teacher's Union officials (but I am being redundant, because they are one and the same, there being a revolving door). And then it is pressed down on the school by an administrator who is attempting to please the ""higher ups"" (and/or to guarantee the flow of funds linked to said program) on one of their several ridiculously inane ""metrics"". >A recent example from the town I grew up in. That letter is *hilariously SAD* (and not for the reasons that you think). This ""teacher"" (with a Masters Degree (!!) in Reading -- from which I assume they believe they understand ""reading"" better than anyone -- be interesting to know the last time this ""Master"" of reading actually READ a book that wasn't strictly required, the answer is probably a decade or more ago).. This ""teacher"" is really just one central-planning disciple who is objecting to a *different* central planning program than the one they themselves were indoctrinated into. The whole thing is very revealing regarding the sheer lunacy of the ""scientific educator"" and ""scientific education"" paradigm. This teacher (like the administrators the teacher derides) is concerned about the WRONG things. There is really no concern about whether kids are learning how to read and to enjoy/utilize reading (which is a rudimentary skill kids can pick up on their own, provided they haven't had it turned into ""torture"" by some brainless curricula & teacher). But rather it is all about ""what [curricula] to use for reading/language arts"". The phrasing of that question and the misguided emphasis of it reveals the fact that the teacher really doesn't have a CLUE how to truly get kids reading and understanding the English language. Basically he/she just wants to ""work a program"" (by a semi-mindless *rote*) and is really only pissed because the programs keep being changed on them. *Fortunately, a least a small part of the kids WILL learn to read (mostly due to authors/industry putting out things they are interested in -- all hail JK Rowling, JRR Tolkien, & Suzanne Collins) not because of but* **despite** *the formal schooling systems attempts to ""teach"" them.*"