"OK, fair enough, but you did say ""A large part of their barrier to entry is government."" in relation to general industry, in defense of your earlier statement that ""Monopolies can rarely exist without one or two things: Government support or limited geographic area."". My contention is that regulation can present a barrier to entry, but this is not nearly as large a barrier as size, and barriers due to size is the primary reason for monopolies or oligopolies in recent times. If you don't want to use the aircraft industry as an example, let's use Amazon itself. Amazon is cleaning everyone's clocks. Whatever you try and sell, if it is available on Amazon, a smaller player will not be able to compete with them except on the edges. Their market share continues to increase - they own 43% of all US online retail. Why doesn't someone just start up and compete with them? Why aren't there 10-12 different competitors to Amazon? Now clearly, Amazon got a head start - they were among the first to shift into the non-specialized internet retail market (Pets.com only sold pet food whereas Amazon now sells everything). There is no arguing that they do things very well, and have advanced the area of online sales. But they are now without competition, and will not have significant competition unless they stumble badly. And even then, they may not have competition (see: eBay, which now sucks, but still has no real competition). When I look at changing sectors in my general geographic area, I see massive up-sizing coupled with a lack of new entries into the sector. I'll give a few examples: * Auto dealers. I had a relative who owned a Pontiac dealership in the 70s. Just one. He did OK from it. Now, most of the dealerships are owned by people who own somewhere between 5 and 15 different dealerships. * Gas stations. I had a relative who owned a gas station. Again, just one. There were lots of these guys around. Now, most of the gas stations are owned by 2 or 3 conglomerates who own many dozens of stations. * Banks. Yes, regulation is in play here, but there used to be dozens of different banks in my region. Now there are maybe 2 regional banks and 3 national banks. Gone are the days when there was one bank that had 2-3 branches. Even credit unions are consolidating. * Hardware stores. We are down to Home Depot, Lowe's, and a regional chain that has 20-30 stores. No independent guys. * Grocery stores. My region has exactly two full-service grocery store chains, plus maybe 2 discount chains. When I was a kid, there were 10 different regional chains in the area. * Not the best example, but video stores. There used to be 10-12 different mom-and-pop stores, which consolidated into two (Blockbuster, Hollywood Video), which got crushed by Netflix. Smart TVs have allowed for there to be more players in the on-demand world, but the level of skill needed to enter this area cannot be more different between the initial mom-and-pop video store and the world of online content delivery. The list goes on and on. Consolidation is the name of the game, and when a market consolidates, the *average* person can no longer enter it. As it consolidates further, the *above-average* person can no longer enter it, and when it gets to a certain point, no one can enter it. That has harmed the economy because people have stopped ""playing the game"" because they know they can't win. They can't compete with the big boys. Now I don't know what to do about this, but my observation is that this has accelerated in the past 30 years. I think that technology has accelerated it, but I also think that tax code and lack of anti-trust enforcement has also accelerated it. I would put my bet on tax code as the #1 culprit - tax code has made it attractive for people to try and earn tens of millions of dollars per year - there is truth to the conservative claim that ""if the tax rates are too high, people will not work as hard"" - that's not necessarily a bad thing though. Markets are driven by demand, and at any point in time, they have a finite demand - a total size. If there is $15 million worth of demand for hardware in a region, that demand can either be satisfied by one massive global corporation, or by 15 $100k small businesses (or by 30 $50k small businesses). There can be an advantage to one massive global corporation - cheaper prices, higher quality - but there can also be a downside, which is eventually higher prices, less innovation, and even lower quality - plus the downside of the elimination of opportunity for the 30 people who would serve that demand if the massive corporation did not exist, opportunities which turned over every so often due to businesses closing due to retirement or even incompetence. I do not think that tax code stifles innovation though, because people innovate for passion, not for money. Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak founded Apple when the top tax rate was 70%. They did it because they wanted to make computers, not because they wanted to make money. I think that a high tax rate would stifle the relentless pursuit of more dollars by using existing dollars to consolidate sectors."