"I do not and did not support the USA actiona in Afghanistan, Syria, Lybia and Iraq. When it comes to Iraq, I only refer to the 2001 events. I do support the USA actions in the gulf war versus Iraq in the 1990. Totally justified and a good necessary work in the 1990s! I will add: the USA, and only the USA, is 100% responsible for the mess we have now in Syria, Lybia and Iraq. Instead of ""supporting"" the tyrants in those countries, countries that do not understand democracy and are not ready for democracy, the USA actively worked to topple their reasonable tyrant leaders in a failed attempt to do ""Arab Spring"" and ""Nation Building"". Same thing with Iran! Instead of supporting the Shah of Iran, a great and admireable person, Carter created the mess we have with Iran today. **We are so lucky that Egypt managed to kick out the ""democratically elected"" crazy religious guy (Morsi) and replace it with a good tyrant (A-Sisi).** **As for ""Palestine"": I have no doubt that you are totally clueless about the this!** Just like your misguided support for N.Korea. Let's start with N.Korea: I think that USA should stay out of it and only explain that, if EVER(!), Japan or Korea get attacked by N.Korea, then N.Korea will be wiped out from the face of the earth. The USA should let the neighboring countries of China, Russia and India (check the map) handle N.Korea. And those countries know how to handle any agression from N.Korea very very well. We should stay out of this business. **Bill Clinton is 100% responsible for why N.Korea have nuclear weapons with that stupid ""nuclear agreement"" he did with them and even giving them nuclear reactors. Obama WILL BE 100% responsible for Iran having nuclear weapons soon!** **Back to ""Palestine"", a short real true and verifiable historical summary:** There was never ever a country or nation of ""Palestine"". The only reason we hear about ""Palestine"" and ""Palestinians"" today is because in 1967 Israel liberated the local Arabs from a 1948 occupation(!!!) by Egypt and Jordan of land given to them by the UN, for which Israel agreed to. If the 1967 events never happened, you would not hear today about ""Palestine"" and ""Palestinians"". True or false? So, Israel never wanted to be a ""Greater Israel"" to rule over millions of additional Arabs as part of its democracy or ""occupation"" - more Arabs than Jews!! Israel is not that dumb. True or false? The blockade is actually by Egypt and Israel. Check the map! Egypt has a lllllooooonnngggg border with Gaza. True or false? The local Arabs can have a ""Palestine"" for themselves already in 1948 (if they agreed to the UN partition plan) or 1967 after they were liberated by Israel. **Israel has only one condition, in 1948 and in 1967, for a ""Palestine"": that ""Palestine"" needs to be a nice neighbor to Israel.** They don't want to be nice, so no ""Palestine"" until they grow up. True or false?"