"> My one(!) ""maybe"" is with confidence.. > Your many ""maybe""(s) are about why Trump is not going to reduce drug prices, despite him saying he would.. Oh, I see! When you say something is ""maybe"" it is factual but when I say something is ""maybe"" it's fiction. I had assumed something else. > Your ""maybe""(s) together with your ""possibilities"" are to desperately convince yourself (and me) about baseless things you want to believe in. I did give you a ""possibility"" which is a ""maybe"" so that means I am wrong and global warming is no risk at all. Yes, what you say is starting to make sense. > I said ""you won't believe anything he said"" and you reply ""No"" and immediately adding ""it only means I won't accept what he says as true."" I understand now. If I don't accept something as true then that too would be a ""maybe"" in my mind which means it is, once again, fiction. You are right, I had set myself up to believe anything he said was a lie. > I said again and again that I supported Trump over his stance(s on).. I did not realize that your support of President Trump totally cancels my criticism of him in an unrelated area. My bad. > ..despite (Democrats) being so corrupt, cheaters, killers, scandals, no integrity, no plans, etc. Things are becoming much clearer! For example, this isn't another example of you defending President Trump by attacking Democrats. Obviously this is you giving President Trump *alternative* support. > How could a person like you, who seek truth, vote for democrats? It can only be because I have serious mental health problems. There is no other explanation. > The bottom line: I and Trump were against the war in Iraq BEFORE(!) it started. Oh of course, it would have been a lie except he changed his mind and forgot to tell anyone. I have been so unfair to him! > ..you are trying to convince me that Russia new he would win and colluded with him between July until the elections November to make him win? That is totally it! I am so impressed that even though I never mentioned Russia at all you were able to see through my facade an pinpoint my actual goal in this discussion. /u/raananh, my positions wither when confronted by your incredible insight and bulletproof arguments. President Trump is so lucky to have a supporter like yourself. Thank you so much for taking the time to set me straight."