Well looking backwards there was such a thing as low skilled labor family supporting jobs. Right now the low skill labor market is retail which doesn’t pay well. But anyway in the past we used to fill factories with low skilled labor and they used to make a solid living on that. Those jobs have been automated, outsourced, etc and that leaves people with very little options. This explains a lot of inner city poverty as well. Those neighborhoods used to have plenty of low skilled factory or manual labor jobs that would support people who wanted to work but didn’t have a lot of particular skills. Once those jobs disappeared what did that leave them with? 5 bucks an hour at McDonald’s? It’s all connected. What should we do about that? Well I’m not sure. You can jump on the bandwagon that all of the jobs have been shipped away but that’s not necessarily true. It’s part of it but a lot of jobs simply don’t exist anymore. I saw a fantastic old video about a book binding factory that used to employ a ton of people. You’d have people for each job. Binding, glueing etc but now a machine pretty much does all of the work. What we could do is try to raise wages for the low skill market like retail to make them competitive but a lot of those companies are massive and they might be run out of business if they had to pay their employees more but at the same time, it’s necessary. That’s the theory anyway. Maybe more education for people in new industries. Despite what Donald Trump sells, it’s likely that coal jobs and factory jobs aren’t going to make a massive come back. That would certainly be nice but that’s not gonna happen. We need to put a lot of time and effort into training people for new industries while they’re young. That means training people in coding, computer software, robotics, renewable energy. Jobs of the future. I think right now we are still working on a shifting market. What we do with people beyond school at this point? I don’t know. Just thoughts. Note low skilled doesn’t mean stupid or anything it just means you’re walking in not having done a particular job before or you’re just kind of the average Joe. That’s a lot of people.