"They work within the system you guys created. Your desire for heavily regulated everything leads to some really fucked up incentives. These guys have no need to please the consumer, they only have to please the government. They don't have to worry about competition because the barriers to entry are so incredibly high that a good alternative has nearly zero chance of entering the market to compete with better service. Then you guys come along and go see I told you the market doesn't work lets regulate it some more. In response to that, these massive corporations (that I assure you I hate just as much), respond by merging to fight off the threat's. The Threats being both the ""customer"" and the ""government"". But only one of those can actually put them out of business. The guys who ""regulate"" them. Because they have made the rest of us a captive audience through regulatory control. All these regulations have accomplished is to put the smaller businesses who support the majority of real people and jobs out of business. Leaving ""government"" jobs like the military or positions that extract money from the populace like police organizations have become. They are so focused on making money and siezing property now that they are killing citizens left right and center. While avoiding real police work because it doesn't pay the bills so to speak. But maybe more of the same will be the solution to the problem. But I highly doubt it. You should actually listen to those video's I suggested and you likely ignored. I want the same things I just want far more options, without having to become a drone. I own myself. I can not support a system which allows others to dominate me for ""the good of all"". This utopian dream where people think they ""run"" the government and that the government is accountable to the people is honestly a ""fairy tale"" at best. Everytime power is concentrated it will be corrupted. It is inevitable and dangerous to think differently. If you can honestly look at your government and feel like you control it. Then you have far more ""faith"" than I do and many others do. There is no such thing as a one size fits all solution to any problem. We need many ideas with many solutions and the right to choose the ones that best fit us and are within our means. Your rights end, where my rights begin. If that cant be sacred, then it can be turned on you, just as easily as it is turned onto the people you want to control. Forced socialism is a sentence not a solution. Figure out how to make it voluntary then I might sign up."