"> the natural rights of the Jews who must live as second class citizens have certainly been lost. Really? What ""natural rights"" have they had removed? They are still free to own their own property, dispose of it as THEY see fit - say by not serving Bigot Bobby when he comes into their stores. A ""natural right"" it something that is innate to being human. You have no natural right to shop or buy things, sorry. > And comparing an actual church to a church-run business like a hospital (the type of business affected by the Obama legislation you allude to) is also inappropriate for the same reason. Only because you don't want to admit that your worldview is based on he exertion of extreme force and prejudice. The fact that anyone would defend violating people's religious beliefs is just one indication of the moral sewer we've been led into by the equal rights nonsense. You do NOT have a right make any business owner - religious or otherwise - do things that are against their beliefs. Period. > . But unless we abridge the rights of those with wealth and power to oppress others through economic means This is left drool of the worst kind. Wealth can only be accumulated via two methods: Theft (which I oppose in all it's forms including yourse wherein you want to seize the property of private citizens that own businesses) and Creation Of Value (whether by goods or services). Setting aside theft for a moment, this means that all wealth *is created because someone, somewhere created great value for other people. Even if I inherit money, it still came from one of these two sources. Most importantly *it does not bleong to the public, it does not belong to the government*. > Being FORCED to live life as a second class citizen is FAR WORSE than being forced to do business with people you prefer to shun. Go start a business and get back to us. You are not only wrong, you are wrong pathologically. If a person is refused service for any reason, they can find another store, shop, or vendor. If I refuse to comply with government do-gooding and meddling, I go to jail. Forceful acts by government are ALWAYS far worse than forceful acts in the private sector, at least in the usual case. > If you have any ideas about how to ensure all citizens have a realistic opportunity for success without any government intervention in the economy This is an absurd demand. Apparently, you did not get the memo. THERE IS NO EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN LIFE FOR SUCCESS. How do I know this? Because some people are smarter, better looking, stronger, take more risks, have better families that support them and so on. The only way to equality of the sort the left keeps gurgling on and on about is to have everything lowered to the lowest possible common denominator. That's how you get the cultural messes like Watts in LA or Englewood in Chicago, downtown D.C., downtown Detroit, Appalachia, and so on. They're ""equal"" all right - equally miserable. You'd better grow up fast on this one - some people succeeding and a few failing is WAY better than EVERYONE failing.. and that's exactly where your collectivist sewer leads. It doesn't matter what you or I think, it's observable in Reality."