"> She said Muslims ( which implies ALL of them). No!! No! Again, she did not said ALL Muslims. Look, I say ""terrorist attacks are carried out by Muslims"". There, I said that. Did I say all Muslims are terrorists? No. Did I say most Muslims are terrorists? No. Did I say that terrorists are Muslims? Yes. Did I say a non-Muslim cannot be a terrorist? No. Very unlikely, but it's possible. Is it true that almost all terror attacks and almost all terrorists are Muslims? Yes. Do I hate all Muslims when I said what I said? No. Now, if I work in border patrol, should I pay attention as much to a 70 years old blond Swedish lady as I pay attention to a young Muslim looking guy with a beard? > I compared a personal attack to an attack of a whole group which is more damaging but most people are strangely ok with that. No. Criticism of a whole group with a valid basis for that criticism is not ""damaging"". It's has a very good effect on the criticized group. If certain groups are not criticized, a HUGE damage will happen to them. > I was in Sweden recently.. turns out no one is shitting in the streets or burning cars its actually very clean with extremly low crime rates Not as it used to be. Stockholm, if you allow yourself to hear ""hate speech"", became a rape capital of Europe, not to mention Malmo, and Swedish girls are not as free to walk the streets as they used to. > I know people you can only describe as Nazis, but i don't hate them. I think they are idiots and i want nothing to do with them... Yes, you think they are idiots. You do hate them! Surely you don't love them or indifferent to them. Your approach of ""I want nothing to do with them"" has consequences: damage to more idiots who join the Nazis, growing ranks of Nazis with damage to society, and eventual damage to yourself of hating them but being forced to keep it to yourself. You know why Nazis exist? Because they hate, more than you, other groups you do not want to criticize. **Let me ask you: As you know, Nazis hate Jews despite Jews being one of the best and most contributing groups in society throughout history. Would you defend Jews being criticized by Nazis? If you do, do you realize what you just did?**"