Dental implants consist of small titanium posts that are inserted into the jawbone, closely replicating a natural tooth root. This does require a small surgical procedure but there is no need to be concerned as our principal dentist here at Radiance Dentistry is an experienced oral surgeon and prosthodontist. Dr. Mounir Iskandar has received specialized training and has many years’ experience in placing dental implants. He will make sure that every step of your dental implant treatment is meticulously planned, ensuring your dental implant surgery proceeds quickly and smoothly and is ultimately more successful. All the treatment you require can be carried out in our comfortable and well-equipped dental office, from a dental team you will already know and trust. WHAT IS THE PROCEDURE FOR PLANNING DENTAL IMPLANT SURGERY? To plan your implant surgery, Dr. Iskandar will take digital dental x-rays and a cone beam CT scan. This scan provides highly detailed 3-D images of your jawbone, allowing Dr. Iskandar to fully assess the condition of your jawbone and to identify all the important structures such as sinus cavities, nerves and blood vessels that must be avoided during surgery. These images will show if you have sufficient bone for implant placement or if you require a bone graft or sinus lift prior to surgery. If you do need a bone graft there is no need to be concerned, as Dr. Iskandar is extremely experienced in using the very latest and most advanced bone grafting techniques. Sometimes if only a tiny amount of bone is required it can be placed at the same time as your dental implant. COMPUTER-GUIDED DENTAL IMPLANT SURGERY Once Dr. Iskandar has identified the optimal position for your dental implants, a surgical guide is made that will be used during their placement. This is a highly sophisticated template that will guide the implant placement down to the nearest millimeter. Using computer-guided surgery will ensure your treatment is a complete success, providing you with teeth that not only look wonderful but which are fully functional. WHAT TO EXPECT DURING IMPLANT SURGERY We will make sure your dental implant surgery is pain-free by using local anesthesia to numb the area. If you are at all anxious about this treatment, you may wish to consider additional sedation. Dr. Iskandar can provide nitrous oxide or oral sedation to help you relax during surgery. To insert the dental implant, Dr. Iskandar will make a small incision in your gum to expose the jawbone, before placing the dental implant in the position identified by the surgical guide. The area is then stitched and left to heal. At this stage, Dr. Iskandar may attach what is called a healing cap to the dental implant post. This gently shapes the surrounding gum tissue as it heals, providing improved aesthetics once your tooth is restored. If required, we can then fit a temporary restoration to be worn while your dental implants heal and integrate with your jawbone. There is no need to worry as we will make sure you can eat and speak comfortably during this healing period. If you only require a single dental implant then surgery is really quite quick. A single dental implant may take as little as an hour to place. Bridges and dentures will require multiple dental implants, so surgery will take a little longer. The time required for your surgery can be discussed during your initial consultation. OSSEO INTEGRATION It normally takes 3 to 6 months for a dental implant to fully heal with the surrounding bone during a process called Osseo integration. Your dental implant post will have been specially treated to encourage this process, where new bone cells will grow on and around the post. As they do so, the post gradually fuses with the jawbone, becoming strong and stable and able to support a replacement restoration. ATTACHING THE ABUTMENT Once Osseo integration is complete, Dr. Iskandar will remove the healing cap and can attach an abutment to your implant post. There are many different types of abutments that can be used, depending on the final restoration. An abutment will protrude above your gum line and is used to support your crown, bridge or denture. A detailed dental impression is taken of your dental implant and is sent to our dental laboratory. They will custom-make your restoration to our exact prescription, using the highest quality materials to create beautiful teeth that will blend in seamlessly with your smile. Your restoration can then be secured in place at your next visit, completing your treatment and providing you with an aesthetically appealing and fully functional smile. To find out more about dental implant surgery and how it could help restore your smile, contact Radiance Dentistry to schedule your consultation with Dr. Iskandar today. About US: http://radiancedentistry.com/dental-implants/surgery/ - Dr. Iskandar is a certified restorative and cosmetic dentistry specialist and is licensed both as a general dentist and as a Prosthodontist. Dr. Iskandar obtained his DDS degree from Cairo University School Of Dentistry in 1998. Dr Iskandar holds a specialty in Prosthodontics and MSD (Masters of Science in Dentistry) obtained from Indiana University School of Dentistry in 2008. Dr. Iskandar is a Diplomate of international Dental Implants association since 2011. CONTACT US: Radiance Dentistry Mounir Iskandar 2020 W Rochelle Rd Irving, TX 75062 Phone : (972) 258-1702