"Transactions cost is what kills you here. The price of determining who gets what, and then enforcing it. For example; let's say you invested in my electrical engineering class. Then when I get out of school, I go to work. At Starbucks. Where I'm applying literally none of that knowledge or experience--and thus I signed a bad deal. Or what if I change majors? You still have a stake on my lifetime income, but it won't be in the field you helped me into. So college-aged indecision would mean twice as much out of my take-home income for life? Or what if I'd like to buy your percentage back from you? What would be a fair price? Would there be a market to establish it? You should read ""The unincorporated man,"" which has a system very similar to what you're proposing. In this futuristic story, education and subsistence investment have become astronomically expensive. So in order to send a kid through spaceship-piloting college, you're actually purchasing ""shares"" of an individual's future earnings like they're a corporation. Parents get 10% when you're born. Government gets 5% in lieu of taxes. These shares have a market value based on income, expenditures, health, etc--pricing individuals just like you'd price a company. In the story, most individuals have sold over 50% of their shares; meaning that they effectively don't have controlling interest over their lives. Their jobs, their homes, all their major decisions are made by the shareholders. So you might take a high-risk job, just because one of your biggest shareholders wants a payday. Of course, since it's on the open market you can buy your shares back. Once you're back over 50%, you're back in control of your life and the majority of your income. The way the author imagines it, it's a pretty comprehensive system. And the book stays delightfully ambiguous as to whether it's debt slavery or a new evolution of liberty. But again; transactions costs. Think of six billion little corporations with all their vital stats and market data. Now imagine voting on the jobs and homes of the potentially hundreds of people in whom you have an interest. It would simply be impossible to keep track of. Honestly, it'd probably be more modest to just pay your student loans."