"> All those receptionist that are being displaced by graduates Receptionists aren't getting replaced by graduates. They're being replaced by MS-Word 2010, Google Calendar, Facebook, etc. Improving information technology means we need less people managing information by hand. The law firm I did IT support for 20 years ago used to have 1 secretary for every attorney. It's like 1 sec'y for every 5 attorneys now. Those jobs are going away, that's the problem. Another aspect of the problem is, those secretary jobs aren't being replaced with as many IT jobs. Technological innovation means we need less people to do the same amount of work. Maybe I'm not understanding your point here, or maybe you're not understanding mine. I'm not arguing that re-structuring labor markets and occupations during recessions is a ""good"" thing. I'm only arguing that this happens (find me any economist who won't agree on this point.) It's not good or bad. It exists. This is what happens during a recession. I am arguing that the prescription isn't to try to fight it. Trying to keep people like the woman in TFA employed as receptionists isn't going to do any good in the long term for the economy. If we try to keep real estate agents in business after the housing boom, or bankers afloat after the financial crisis, we're only punting on big structural economic problem for a later day, we're only continuing to put off essential evolution in the labor market. I'm not arguing for any proscriptive solution here. Candidly, I don't think there is one. I think the woman in TFA needs to figure out on her own how to maximize her own economic potential. It sucks, but this is what happens during a recession. Using tax dollars to artificially prop up her employment prospects, while diminishing others employment prospects doesn't solve any problems at the macro level. I don't understand what you're arguing for here. I agree that there is a core problem right now with unemployment and not enough jobs. But I'm not sure what solution you're offering, it seems to me that you're just arguing against basic economic theory here."