This is a wonderful comprehensive answer as it relates to transferring goods, and evaluating profitability. I would like to add to your post and comment about a few other costs that are transferred. First though, I disagree with your comment about transfer pricing being about opportunity cost. I think transfer pricing is first and primarily about the matching principal. Properly matching expenses incurred to the revenues generated from those expenditures, or in the case of period expenses, to those entities that received a benefit in the proper period. I don't work in tax, so I'm by no means an expert in this subject, but I am a CPA and I feel I have a solid understanding of the subject. Some additional items going through TP might be: interest, shared corporate services, the amortization of intellectual property, technology fees, and depreciation charges. This is not a comprehensive list, and please don't take it as such. None of these need apply to every company, and certain industries and even individual companies will have exceptions. For example, for various reasons, a multi-national conglomerate may choose to maintain separate treasury functions for it's vastly different businesses, so you may not see much interest TP. Interest is pretty straight forward, and is the interest a company is paying on a debt. Not all interest is transferable, but a classic example might be borrowed funds used for an acquisition. The interest cost associated with that should be transferred in part back to the original entity. Short term borrowing costs used for operating capital is another classic example. Shared corporate services are centralized functions like a legal department, accounting department, executive offices, and the like. This can also be an IT department or in the instance of an international website (maybe google), an operations team monitoring the server loads and up-times. IP could just be patents that have definite lives that a number of businesses are benefiting from. IP is a bit of a mess to get into for various reasons and I'm trying to stay focused in this post. Some reasons for complexity include: the valuation, life of the asset, benefit of use, is the entity even really using it?, etc. I would imagine this is where companies get away with A LOT. Technology fees can be software licenses (Windows ain't free). Depreciation can be capitalized proprietary software. I'm running out of gas and wanted to comment about OP's question. I don't think SLA's and Internal billing services are a matter of directly increasing efficiency, more a matter of not creating inefficiencies. Going anecdotal, anywhere I've worked, the best person to do the job has been whoever's closest to the work. It wouldn't make much sense to me to have accounting gather up internal support during the VERY time sensitive month-end close for something like one division's trade magazine that another division placed an ad in. On the other hand, I think the allocation of copy expenses on an activity basis is an absolute waste of time. It all depends on the specific transaction in question. Great post bctich. Don't mean to detract, just looking to help others understand.