"> I have a bachelor's degree in management, but for the most part, we skimmed through several finance-related subjects like investments, project analysis. I wish I could flag the question of ""why do they do this to you kids"" for future discussion with those more knowledgable, because surely there are incentives shaping these programs. However, you asked for assistance, so I will share the limited knowledge that I have. From the other advice, it seems clear that you should absolutely pursue a stronger background in accounting and finance in order to accomplish your long-term goals. This work will need to extend past the point of this particular interview, whether you are hired by this company or not. So you should probably approach that as a concurrent educational goal, rather than tying it to your preparations for this interview per se. With regards to seeming smart, per se: don't sweat it too much. If you're qualified for the job without a certified educational background, then it's not a position where relative intelligence, short of frame-breaking brilliance, is going to be decisive. Past the point where your prospective competence is established, other factors will quickly overshadow it. Attempting to impress people with intelligence, rather than concrete achievements, should by rights serve as a red flag for prospective employers. Intelligence cultivates its own set of liabilities and deficiencies. The world is full of intelligent people who would rather be measured by what they *could* have achieved, rather than what they *did* achieve. If attempting to be hired for this job involves a fully transparent approach --- that is, the company would be interested in knowingly hiring someone with an incomplete background *in the work they will eventually be expected to perform* --- then your ability to prepare for the interview is a significant part of your resumé. Low-hanging fruit, nonetheless easily missed, are histories of the industry, the technology, and the particular company."