"So, I've been actively looking for work in my field (Education) since graduation (2013) with little success. But I'll give it a shot since no one else has yet, some 'tricks' I've picked up along the way..with little success mind you ;) Nothing ventured nothing gained. If you don't acutally do 'the work' and begin the process of applying and feeling out their interest for a candidate you won't learn how much they are willing to buy your labor for. They have a price in mind before you apply. They look at your credentials and determine if you will do the job and exceed expectations based on your 'status'. Age, current position, other known facts of your life, married, mortagae, kids, they all bring babggage and expectations to the table, that they may or may not consider or know but can affect yours and their expectations and bring a heathly or unheathly dynamic to the table depending on the realtionship at hand, do you like them, and can you see yourself liking to work for them? SO what kind of comapny do they want to be? Most likely they want to be on the bleeding edge if their new and cut away from the flock. But realistically they can probably hardly afford to pay for a mosquito's portion of your current position without some heavy hitters backing them. Who is backing them? SO you will need to go in expecting a dollar gained for the company is a dollar given (to you hopefully, down the road). If you take 5% pay cut this year you better be getting a 5-20% increase in the following 5 years based on performance, but how do you sell yourself as a facet of the team that achieves these longterm goals, how do you fit? Therefore if you don't gain anthign this round, make sure you have verible or written affirmation of compensation in the future to follow up with when due. On top of this 'dynamic' look at similar positons advertised recently on various other websites to anchor your asking price, aim 10%-15% higher and you'll hopefully land on the moon if not the stars. Normally I would go to linkedin to check out the excecs history and glassdoor but not sure thats needed in this case since you know them already and its a newer company. With that in mind, ask yourself, ""Is this a job I would and could see myself eager to be challenged by the next 3 years."""