">""You didn't lose your job, you just had temporary employment."" Same as back in the late 1990's (when unemployment was really low) -- a lot of people got jobs they really weren't qualified for; and were paid far more (at least on a scale relative to their co-workers) than they were really worth. The sad thing about that is that they came to *believe* they were truly worth that amount of money. The same with houses. My home (bought in late 2000) increased in ""estimated market value"" by 75% (i.e. to 175% of it's previous sale price when I bought it) -- and the ""bubble"" around here wasn't anything like it was in other regions of the US; and of course, now it has (ostensibly) sunk back down to very nearly the price I paid for it. The problem (for a LOT of people) with that is that -- even if they didn't buy during the peak bubble years -- they refinanced or HELOC'd based on that higher estimated value, and so ended up basically removing (and then spending) the lion's share of equity that they had built up in their house. For others, it was much the same as the late 90's employment -- they came to ""believe"" that their house was worth XX% more -- and they have difficulty ""letting go"" of that illusory estimated market price. So they are experiencing the ""wealth LOSS effect"" just as they once experienced a ""wealth effect"". I was saved from those things because: a) I realized that the price of houses is always ""at the margin"", and is never guaranteed by what the place cost, or what you have invested in it, or even what the owner or mortgage company *thought* it was worth; rather (when you go to sell) it will be determined by what the buyer(s) want/are capable of paying; b) I was far more concerned with what my ""total cost of buying"" would be (including all of the interest paid on the mortgage) -- this led me to first of all only buy what I ""needed"" in a house (i.e. single guy = small place) and secondly to pay the whole thing off ASAP (which I did, *dramatically* lowering the total lifetime cost of the place); And finally and probably MOST IMPORTANTLY (though in part due to ""b"" above): c) It doesn't really matter to me whether the price goes up or down -- because I know that I will always need a place to live and that (generally speaking, due to overall market conditions) the prices of ALL houses will tend to go up/down together -- and though not necessarily in ""lock-step"" (there are always factors of neighborhood, local economy, housing trends, etc.); but still, should I desire to move, I will essentially be able to ""trade"" my house for a similar one in a similar market with only a small (6% to 10%) cost. d) But I also know that if I move ""up market"" (attempt to move to an area/house that has a relatively higher demand/higher price) that I will then have to pay more or get an even smaller place (smaller home, less land, no garage/shop, etc); yet conversely if I for some reason decide to move ""down market"" (to an area/house with a relatively lower demand/price) I may be able to either pay less, or to get slightly *more* ""house"" (additional land, outbuildings, etc). Note: I also took into account ""demographic changes"" when I bought -- and think I made the right choice (even though it hasn't ""played out"" yet) -- with the typical household actually becoming *smaller* (divorces, single parents, fewer kids, more retirees wanting to downsize, etc) I figured way back in 2000 that in 15-20-30 years (circa 2015.2045) the big ""McMansions"" would be aging and in huge oversupply, whereas smaller homes would be in relatively higher demand (and given things like ""smart growth planning"") probably in lesser supply.. and so would be more likely to retain value. Again, this hasn't ""played out"" yet (though there definitely ARE signs that it is starting), but I am also really not interested in selling.. so it's a moot point at present. (And even if I am proved wrong, it will probably merely prove to be the loss of an ""upside"" and not an actual loss per se.)"