So some pretty complex math goes into play for stuff like this, notably increasing ad penetration in specific markets and demographics to test ad success - just like a TV ad. Usually TV ads are handled by network sales teams, so (let's ignore local advertisements) when you, me, and my dad all watch a show on ESPN at our homes, we're seeing the same ad for Gatorade. My dad shops at a grocery store in a location that's predominantly old people and families with a heavy lean toward $insert_sports_team in the suburbs, you and I live in the city (young professionals) but your city is notable for having a big tech sector and not a lot of sports interest, mine is big on banking and loves $other_sports_team. Based on sales numbers broken down by region and even stores through distributors if sales tick up at my dad's store for Gatorade but stay flat at your store and are down at mine they can assume the ad worked on older people with post-graduate education with incomes over $150k who love LeBron James, but didn't work so well with people in their 30s who are fans of the team LeBron is about to play in the big banking city, and that you didn't really care about the ad at all. The great thing about internet advertising is it's even more targeted. Dad, you, and I will almost never see the same ad for Gatorade on the internet, now- if they show one to people meeting my demographic at all. Your search history shows you don't care about sports, you don't work out, and you're big on technology- seeing the LeBron ad makes you think 'oh.. it's that baseball guy?' Sales among your demographic stay flat at your store, mostly shopped by 'your type' of people. Sure- there are outliers like that gym rat in your building, but he's already buying the product and doesn't need convincing- they need a new strategy to hit you. My dad sees the ad on the AARP website because he's always searching for scores for his college team he played on 40 years ago. His school *invented* gatorade, so he's buying anyway but most of his neighborhood is old people who need Metamucil, not Gatorade. He's an outlier but if they want to get other old people the ad needs to start showing old footage of superstar baseball players from the 60s. When sales in my region drop because my city hates LeBron and is passionate about it they can make a lot of judgments based on the data. I got a little too 'up my own ass' with my anecdote but the point is targeted data from search history is basically TV ads on steroids, and just like anything else sales data is used to assess trends and ad success/failure.