"1. Internet is not a regular product or service, it's a utility. 2. An unregulated utility market simply leads to regional monopolies, because the companies privately own the infrastructure. That's exactly what we have. The cable companies cut up the country and generally stay out of eachother's turf, because it's more profitable than competition. This is the opposite of a capitalist market, by the way. They are now all billionaires from providing bear minimum service and avoiding any real competition. Instead of competing, they slowly build enough money until they can simply buy out their competitors. Comcast has gotten so rich it bought NBC and is now looking to buy TWC. 3. Fair competition for utilities requires rules that prevent the reigning company from blocking out competitors. This is called ""[Open-Access](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_access_%28infrastructure%29)"", this is what they have throughout most of Europe. This doesn't happen here because the reigning monopolies use their billions to buy political influence in Washington DC via lobbyists, campaign fund raising, donations, etc.. It is so effective, that the former chair of the FCC, Michael Powell, made a PSA bashing Open-Access competition rules and praising our monopoly system, saying it has resulted in the best internet in the world, which is of course a bold-faced, demonstrable lie. [Video used to be on youtube, can't find it anymore] 4. The root cause is an apathetic voter base who view Washington as too corrupt to even reform, which keeps the people who care about this issue the most away from the poles. This simply strengthens the power of the corporate lobbyists to control politics even more. 5. To take on these giants, you need to be a giant yourself, with tons of money to burn and a big reason to do it even though you'll probably lose money, since it's more like charity than a great business opportunity. The only ones who fit the bill are Google, and only because they have a vested interest in keeping the internet free, open, fast, robust and affordable. It also helps that they spent the past decade buying up fiber optic infrastructure."