> make reddit more ~~accessible~~ profitable. Seriously, come on. Reddit is plenty accessible to the nerdy weirdo base that loves it, me included. Making it more like Facebook and Twitter will only drive existing users (unprofitable users) away and bring in or try to bring in more profitable users. It's like Kitchen Nightmares, we're the old-school customers, we love our microwaved lamb shank and stewed potatoes, but that isn't making money for the restaurant. Now we only come here for those things, it's familiar, comforting we're not your typical customer. BUT, for the restaurant to stay open they need to be more accessible to the average customer, have new and exciting things. So the menu needs to be changed. They'll get new customers, one's who like the new menu, but at the expense of loosing us. Which is fine, because we don't pay the bills. We don't matter. That's what you don't get. We're not paying for Reddit, and that IS a problem. That's why there's been more rounds of funding, diluting the already existing shares, because without this influx Reddit would sink. They're trying to stay open with the old menu, but at some point they need to make a buck and a new menu is what IS going to happen. Being in denial isn't going to stop that. >Do you think companies like Uber who absolutely haemorrhage money are thinking that profit is their top priority? Uber is forcing traditional Taxi companies out of their own market. They can ride on losses for a very long time because they are clearly the future, much like Amazon. Reddit is not doing anything like that. >No, it's about growing the user base. There's arguably more value in that these days for tech companies. Reddit isn't a tech company, it's a social media company it's 'technology' is neat but doesn't produce a profit mostly because Reddit users are savvy enough to run Ad-Block and we don't buy Reddit Gold enough to care. Notice the privacy policy changes and the Do Not Track abandonment? Selling our data is the next attempt to make money, and better targeted marketing. But for that to work we need Facebook and Twitter users, meaning we need to be dumbed down to be more like them.