"Which is the ""shouldn't ever expect to do better than their competitors employees"". The ""sit down and shut up"" is towards the bottom >Second, everyone needs to understand that it’s management’s job to identify and weigh alternatives, and to recommend a course of action. In the world as it is, management is getting lots of help – from the Board, the Court, and the Creditors. Since the decisions being made are very important, and will impact every employee, their opinions should be given careful consideration. There are many forums – including participation in the court process — in which employee views can and should be taken into account. Management should listen carefully, but employees need to understand that it’s management’s job to decide and that acting in ways intended to undercut management’s role can only be counter-productive. >While the decision process is underway, everyone at American should be doing everything possible to improve performance, so that the post-bankruptcy company – whether American as it is or American combined with other entities – will have the broadest possible base of customer support from which to launch the renaissance every employee should be hoping for. His entire spiel is so heavily sided towards management it's almost farcical. He's doing exactly what the airline pilot was complaining AA management is doing (treating the workers like faceless, interchangeable, and disposable cogs in the assembly line) while saying they shouldn't try to flex any negotiating power that management doesn't see fit to give them. And god forbid they have the gall to question the wisdom of their benevolent leaders (management is the thinkers, workers should just be the mindless doers). I'm not a ""rah rah unions"" or ""boo business/management"" type of person. I just hate blatant bullshit. AA's workers have a legitimate gripe, that AA the company would almost certainly be better off merging with another airline but AA's management is better off going it alone and is asking the rest of the company to sacrifice to make that happen. Until that fundamental disconnect is reconciled, patronizing paeans to the wisdom of the company's leadership and knowing your place aren't helpful."