"I appreciate the actually reasonable initial response. I've been consistently called a fake and a fraud mostly by, as you can probably guess, my competitors and my ex who has turned genuinely psycho. She and her father have now made the news for being directly connected to well documented international and American human rights violations, her father being directly connected to apparently a police chiefs admitted systematic protected records falsification/tampering/destruction and so much else. Those two groups arent exactly mutually exclusive at the moment. Her father works in PR/lobbying and she basically tried to make it a goal to ruin me. Why you might ask? Thats a great question. Could have something to do with the money I make people and people potentially owing me more than a few million. You really have to also consider though that would be an absurdly small price to pay for a billion especially if it took about 20 min to deliver in just that instance. Also the fact that she couldnt keep her clothes on to save her life after that point. All of the fake/fraud rhetoric is despite the fact, and probably because, I literally completed industry leading and often freely available open source economic work for no pay for several years as well as my comp (when I actually bill) being largely entirely performance based which almost nobody in the industry will even contemplate. Im not even that smart I just basically as it appears comparably dont have a sudden compulsive need to actively feel like I'm causing problems for people or just bullshit people frankly. Quite the opposite. A good number of the people who have tried to discredit or defame me in some way, if they knew the cause of this situation, probably wouldnt exactly be happy with it. Especially so considering how much money its likely very tangibly cost them just largely due to a psycho ex. On an anecdotal basis, despite previously knowing this was reflected in the data, I can hardly think of more of a good reason to just actually work with people and see how it goes than this. All of its to basically say I'm sure a guy (and his company) who is that wealthy publicly has had a few situations that make his life complicated and some probably without any good reason. You might have missed out. I know a few very skilled people who went to work for them. If you were offered to be flown out to them for an interview like that (again), definitely go (especially if you have fallback(s)) and just see what they are willing to do to address your concerns. I know Amazon being stressful is a common thing thats said; however, Amazon isnt a dumb company. They need skilled people and if it makes sense for them it wouldnt surprise me if they could figure something out that would work for both of you. Plus you can always quit as opposed to some things that you cant just say ""stop"" or ""be reasonable"" and have it resolved in a few weeks or less. I hope this helps you in some way."