"Best Buy's customer service tomfuckery is the sole reason I will never set foot in one of their stores, ever again. Several years, and two TVs ago, I purchased a floor model on sale. While I didn't expect much, it was cheap. One of the things I asked _specifically_ about was the remote. The salesman assured me the remote was there. I said okay and we got the thing finagled off the wall and he went looking for the remote for 30 minutes. Came back with a remote with the same brand as the TV, and said, ""Here it is, it was mislabeled."" We did some rudimentary tests in store -- power on, channel flip, etc. Seemed to work. Got it home, remote *only* worked for those basic functions -- power, channel, volume. Anything else didn't, including the number pad, or the various ""launch netflix"" buttons, etc. Did some research, the remote was for a different line. So I went back to Best Buy, with the remote, and told my tale. I asked for the reasonable: The remote for the TV itself, or for Best Buy to order the remote from the manufacturer. It was literally a $20 part, which I could've done, but they said they'd take care of it. I even had the part number, and shit. All they had to do was call the number, give them a card # and a shipping address and I would've been happy. I got, delivered to my door, in order: * One order, COD to my home. I refused delivery. * A box with 3 remotes, the same model as the one I originally got, which was not the right remote. I sent those back. * A box with a Logitech universal remote (really nice, but I already had one by that point), I sent it back. * A ""we're sorry"" letter, and a coupon for like 20% up to $500 at Best Buy. I sealed it back up and wrote ""return to sender, not a remote"" on it, and sent it back. Finally, after almost three months, a lady from the ""office of the President"" (at Best Buy) _called_ me, apologized profusely, conferenced in a rep from the manufacturer, and ordered the fucking remote with me on the phone. I can only image the amount of money and time they wasted trying to save $20. Fuck 'em."