>I appreciate the detailed responses, truthfully however I feel like at least half of your points are either just argumentative for its sake alone, display a deep lack of understanding of unions, collective bargaining, and the histories of both, or ignore pragmatism and cling to an uncompromising and ultimately self-defeating ideology. I feel the same way about your arguments, but I still try to respond to the content of your arguments rather than my assumptions about them. >The law forces the two parties to sit at a table. The law forces the two parties to discuss a few core things, like wages. The law should not force any party to sit at any table. That violates a party's contract liberty. >The idea is since these worker-employer disputes exist naturally, making them at least sit at a table together and talking is helpful in avoiding ego and testosterone fueled disruptions where no one benefits. That's nice that you think you know what's better for other people than they do for themselves, but that doesn't give you a right to force them to any table. A right to contract freedom means the right to dismiss any offer or refuse to even negotiate with a party. >If this you see this as a violation of one's liberty, I really don't know what to say to that. Then I guess we have fundamentally different ideas about what is freedom and what is not. You seem to think that forcing someone to negotiate with a party, against their will, is not a violation of any of their rights. >I'm not saying I don't believe you, but citation needed. Sorry I don't have time to dig up citations now. If I have time later, I'd be happy to do so. All I could find now is an inverse correlation between the state of a country's credit market and the rate of child labor: http://www.fordschool.umich.edu/rsie/workingpapers/Papers476-500/r486.pdf >>There is an abundance of indirect empirical evidence, discussed below, concerning the role of credit constraints and educational attainment. However, Dehejia and Gatti (2002) test the hypothesis directly. They estimate a basic model of child labor determination for a panel of 172 countries for the years 1950-60, 1970, 1980, and 1995. >>The credit-constraint variable is proxied by the share in GDP of private credit issued by 10 deposit-money banks. They find that a one standard deviation increase in the share of credit in GDP is associated with a 10 percent standard deviation decrease in child labor. They conclude that families with access to credit are considerably less likely to put children to work during a period of economic volatility than parents without access to credit. >Wouldn't educating children first lead to an increase in productivity? Also, what if the owners of the means of production, only a few in an given area, have incomes 100x greater than the workers? If there are efficient financial markets that allow parents to borrow money against the expected future increase in earnings from their children being educated, then yes. In less developed economies, these markets have not developed, and the choice is often between death and child labor. >They seem to be producing enough wealth to support themselves, only they're not the beneficiaries. Studies have shown that by and large, parents act altruistically towards their children, and only put them to work if it is in the children's best interest. e.g. page 32: http://www.econ.puc-rio.br/pdf/seminario/2003/manacorda.pdf >>Taking together the evidence so far presented, it appears that the data are consistent with a model where the returns from child labor do not accrue to the parents. Parents redistribute entirely these returns to their children in the form of lower labor supply and higher schooling (plus possibly increased consumption). 47 Laws against child labor therefore will generally do more harm than good. >What's the solution here? The solution is to let the process of economic development run its course until child labor is not necessary. >This is typical anti-union propaganda, and it's funny you pull it out since it ignores your own ideology. What interest would a union have in destroying the very industry it needs to exist? Answer: none. A union is not a self-interested party. A union represents self-interested parties, who are not directly affected by the destruction of their industry 30 years into the future, since they would have retired by then. Many of the laws and union-backed agreements that ended up destroying many of America's industries took decades to have their full effect. It wasn't a case of a law being passed, and the next year, the industry going bankrupt. >I have no idea how one could come to this conclusion. I can only assume it stems from the same old idea that employers are always paying out the most that they can afford. Why should employers pay out the most they can afford, and why should laws be passed to force employers to do so? The only reason people invest is to profit. If all profits had to be paid to employees, there would be no incentive to invest, and therefore no increase in capital/productivity. >I happen to have first-hand knowledge that it's false however - when my workplace unionized recently, one of around a dozen locations nationally and the only one to organize, the company responded by increasing wages and benefits to all locations. Have any locations closed? No. Has anyone been laid off? No. Is the company still mad profitable? Yes. A general effect happens gradually over a course of decades, and happens in the aggregate, not in every case. It will not be apparent in the short-run, and will not be manifested in every case. In other words, that unionization did not result in immediate bankruptcy of your industry does not prove that unionization does not have a negative effect over the average long term performance of industries and average long term increase in wages.