"From one millionaire to another, perhaps I can allay your fears. I am still long and continue to invest. >Trade wars Won't happen. Trump listens very carefully to the business community and they all tell him it's political and financial suicide. Remember how fast Trump backed off the NAFTA termination when the business community told him how many billions of dollars would be destroyed and tens of thousands of jobs lost? NAFTA is no TPP. NAFTA was in force and the positive benefits already quantified with real dollars. Trump was able to pull out from TPP because it was never in force so there was nobody howling about job losses. Had TPP been in force and the huge positive economic benefits been realized, Trump would not have pulled out. >exorbitant rent Correctable government policy failures around housing development. There is plenty of affordable housing (and land for expansion) available in the fast growing cities in TX and elsewhere. Protip - that's why they are fast growing. Businesses need affordable land and workspaces too. >tuition debt Overblown. Boomers are leaving the job market en masse and being replaced with a highly educated generation. The average college debt load is something like $35K which is totally manageable for the vast majority of graduates. [The typical student loan burden is around the same amount as the average car purchase in the US.](http://mediaroom.kbb.com/2017-02-01-New-Car-Transaction-Prices-Remain-High-Up-More-Than-3-Percent-Year-Over-Year-In-January-2017-According-To-Kelley-Blue-Book) >unaffordable health care Fixable. Once Obamacare is eliminated and replaced with a more market-oriented system we should see costs come down. It's absolute insanity that people are forced to pay for insurance riders on stuff they will never use, effectively lighting money on fire. Policies will get stripped down to essentials and serve customers much better. High risk / chronic patients will go into government programs where they belong, and the vast majority of the healthy people left will see bills fall. >massive government debt [High, but not really a problem.](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GFDEGDQ188S) Debt to GDP is perfectly fine and manageable where it is, and the government has the power to write Treasurys and sell them to willing buyers to finance spending. The dollar is the reserve currency of the world and will be for decades to come. The Euro has no chance and the international community doesn't trust China to manage the yuan well. >wealth inequality that's going to explode under Trump Wealth inequality is irrelevant to market returns. Absolutely 100% irrelevant. Financial returns are generated where opportunities exist to make a financial return, not where wealth inequality is highest or lowest. However, to challenge your view, consider that some of the best returns in the last 10-20 years have come from emerging markets like the BRICs, which have the highest wealth inequality. >automation That's what was said about the cotton gin, the car, the steel mill, the train, the telephone, the internet. Wrong every time, and will continue to be wrong in the future. It's pretty arrogant to think that somehow things will be ""different this time."" Human capacity for innovation is ridiculous. [You're arguing against a very strong and accelerating trend.](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GDP) >globalization Excellent for stock market returns, in case you haven't noticed. >isolationism Terrible for stock market returns, I agree. But see my point above about NAFTA. Trump actually listens to businesses as opposed to Obama. He will tread very carefully here. >stock market bubble There is no evidence of a stock market bubble. Trump is talking about reducing corporate taxes from 35% down to a much lower rate like 20%. That immediately increases the value of stocks, boosts economic activity, boosts economic competitiveness, and reduces drag on the economy. Even better, as small/medium sized businesses pay much closer to 35%, lowering the tax helps small/medium sizes businesses the most. That's why small caps are spanking large caps right now. Just a note - the stock market is up around 20% since the election, pretty close to the amount the corporate tax rate is slated to drop. It's critical this tax cut get done to support current valuations. I believe it will as it's long overdue. >housing market bubble There is no bubble, there is lack of supply. Skyrocketing rents as you mentioned above is the opposite of a housing market bubble. It's the symptom of a severe housing market shortage. House building needs to increase dramatically and it will in areas that reduce regulations. >lack of real banking reform Dodd-Frank and other regulations are on the chopping block, which will help. Reforms are coming. Large banks are shielded from real competition by all these laws. I'd like to see more ""startup banks"" competing. >record household debt [Nope, not even close.](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/FODSP) Households have deleveraged since the financial crisis and are in better shape than they've been in a few decades. >Republicans controlling all three branches of government AKA, there's a high chance that taxes and regulations will be reduced, which is good for economic growth."