"> And moreover there is no way that Sculley would have known about Sony's patent application until after it was issued (which I believe was in circa 1970, by which time Sculley would have been 30+ years old). Why would he have had to have known about Sony's patent application. He explicitly stated he *didn't* know about it until after it was awarded. > And if you go with the OTHER version of this story -- that it wasn't a ""Trinitron"" but rather the ORIGINAL ""Color TV"" idea.. well, then it becomes even LESS plausible.. Huh.. it was neither. It was *a* color CRT design that bore a striking resemblance to what became the Trinitron display and certainly could have been considered prior art for some of the relevant patents. > Pretty much like the rest of Sculley's claims regarding his ""technology ideas"" and inventions -- it's all retconned bullshit that was come up with during/after his time at Apple in order to make him look/sound like someone other than a ""carmel-colored sugar-water marketing guy"". The point isn't that Sculley was some genius inventor. He wasn't some master visionary who could predict the future. He sure wasn't going to build an Apple II in his garage. He clearly wasn't any of those things.. then again, neither was Steve Jobs. What Sculley did have though a talent and an abiding interest in technology and certainly understood it far more thoroughly than ""some caramel-colored sugar-water marketing guy"" (let's assume for a moment his TV design was complete crap and unoriginal.. how many kids his age do you think were even coming up with crappy, unoriginal TV designs, and how many of those went on to become marketing guys?). He could reason and understand about technology, its potential, and its impact in a way that a lot of CEO's at the time couldn't. That ability to hear all the technical ideas (and I'd really love to see the part where he claimed credit for these inventions.. because I sure haven't noticed that from *any* of Apple's CEO's before, even Jobs) in development by a multitude of others and synthesize a realistic model of how the market would all come together with enough certainty to act on it is exactly what most CEO's suck at. If you want to talk about BS mythologies, let's talk about the notion that the only CEO Apple had that understood technology was Steve Jobs."