I think the short term that is true but if you really look at the two big platform iPhone and Android, they are both very immature. Neither product has any real edge on the other. MS could potentially bring in a more mature platform since it's based off their existing platform rather than a totally new OS. In doing that MS can also bring in a better development platform than Android or Apple have on their mobile devices. In think we'll all realize Apple and Android effectively made a mistake by developing dumbed down operating systems for phones because phones are increasing in power so quickly the real need is where MS is going, a unified platform. To me it seems a lot like their long term Xbox strategy which allows them the option to unify gaming platforms also. .NET also fits right in perfectly since you have a very powerful and high portable development platform, not just a single language or simple SDK. So, I think Windows 8 phones stand a good chance in this market. MS can bring all the advantages of Android with a more standardize and well known interface. Androids biggest weakness is allow phone companies to tweak the interface, horrible idea. You want you OS to feel familiar and comfy, not different on every device. MS will also address Apple's big flaw (the same one as ever) which is being far too proprietary. On top that MS has the money and connections to make it happen, but similar to Xbox they have to build up a use base before you are gong to see the product take off. The first generation of these new phones may not do that well, but personally I think they will do well enough and then continue to rise until they are right there with Apple and Google. MS is also much closer to a unified platform for you TV. I think the last decade or so of work is coming to a pinnacle for MS and so far so good really. Windows 7 phones get decent reviews, they just lack exposure and a healthy app market, so did the first xbox and now MS fairly easily dominates the console market and will almost certainly beat Sony to the next generation of consoles while expanding their game selection faster. While Apple sales won't get hurt as bad I think an MS phone will eventually give them trouble and when you own the PC and console markets already selling a phone platform shouldn't be that hard. People WANT a unified platform that is all made to work together and soon MS will finally be able to offer that and the new xbox will make it that much better. Many of you may see MS as waning in recent years. I think they have been quietly putting the finishing touches on their Death Star trifecta - the unified PC, Mobile and Console market. Apple and Google have nothing close to that.