">When one says that ""corporations are people"", in a legal sense, they are saying that they have the ability to enter into binding legal agreements in a manner similar to people. I would never use the words ""corporations are people"" to describe this. Corporations are legal structures given a legal status by government to facilitate the cooperation of labor, production and capital. By having this legal status provided by government, they can establish contracts and enforce them. In return, the corporation is subject to regulations and laws established by Government. The simple fact of the matter is that if Government didn't have the authority to provide certain legal statuses to corporations, corporations wouldn't exist. As such, the relationship between corporations and government is symbiotic rather than adversarial (which the current Republican party seems to think - all we hear is how bad government is for business when businesses would not even exist without it). We the People control the government. If we wanted to, we could nationalize every corporation in this country and end capitalism as we know it. We basically did this in 2008 with the banks when capitalism was on it's death bed. Corporations can live or die by the hand of Government. That doesn't sound like a process in which one concludes: ""corporations are people, my friends"". >If they are using it in any sense other than the legal sense, it's either hyperbole, ignorance, or pandering. Romney never clarified what he meant by that statement and given the state of his campaign - one has to wonder. >Now, if you set yourself up as LettersFromTheSky, Inc I have started my own business, I can confirm that my personal expenses (to keep me alive) such as food, car maintenance, rent, etc were not tax deductible but yet my day to day business expenses (to keep it alive) such as paper, wages, equipment, etc were. Edit: Basically, I'm just trying to say that the tax code treats corporations and people totally different. As such, ""corporations are people, my friends"" is demonstrably false."