"> Hahaha.. there is a housing project directly across the street from me as I write this. So you have a front row seat at the zoo. That is not the same thing as living *among* the poor. Petting your beloved downtrodden now and then to try to gin up some sense of personal nobility simply isn't the same thing as actually having been there and done that. > drug war, which disproportionately targets minorities Yes, in the same way that speeding laws target people that drive too fast. While I oppose the drug laws, the idea that they target the underclass is idiotic. They target people that distribute drugs. And isn't it fascinating that these poor, poor people, who have so little, for whom we are to have such veerrrrrrry deep compassion, always manage to have money for cigarettes, beer, and dope. > but the Libertarian ideology only allows for one. No. Libertarian ideology does not speak to the underlying reasons. It merely refuses to allow the ends to justify the means. > Does society have any responsibility to help people who are trapped in a cycle of poverty and bad choices No. We as individuals do, but ""society"" does not. ""Society"" is just another code word used by the self anointed Saviors Of Mankind (tm) as an excuse to pillage personal liberties in your neverending quest to seize power and and appear far more important and noble than you actually are. > The rich are rich for many reason No, the rich are only that way for one of three reasons: Theft, inheritance, achievement. I've already stipulated that the first is always wrong whether by the rich or people like you than want to use a third party in government to execute the act. The other two are none of your business. >There just as many reasons the poor are poor. And just like the rich, this is also none of your business so long as you insist and trying to make me pay for your utopian wetdreams. If you feel so very badly about this, pick up the tab yourself. > And nobody would be rich if we didn't have a functioning society, That's true, and that's why EVERYONE, not just your hated rich, should be paying taxes and picking up a portion of the tab for running an orderly society. The truth in all of this is that you and people like you do not trust your fellow citizens. You believe yourselve to be morally superior to the rest of us and thus entitled to force us all to do what you want. You don't trust the poor to be able to work their way up and you don't trust the integrity of the rich to do the right things with their money. Buy, you noble few, *you're* the ones that know the perfect calculus of how to plan a society. And so it has ever been: Communist would work if they'd just put ME in charge. Nothing made me despise your crowd more than having been poor. You are condescending, smarmy, dishonest, willing to resort to virtually unlimited application of force, and generally clueless. The most drug adled loser in the ghetto isn't remotely the threat to society that you are."