I don't really like to refer to being an expert cause it is all relative really. I know Excel better than anyone in my office but I don't consider myself an expert because my skills don't touch many of the people on Excel-related forums. Anyway, the initiative you are showing wanting to learn this on your own is great. So if you told me that you were in expert in Excel but it is clear you know less than me I'd peg you as someone with overconfidence bias. What I would want to see is that you are familiar with functions common with finance-related Excel work, that you understand under which situations certain functions are more efficient for completing a task. Like math, there are many ways to solve a problem but some are more efficient than others (in Excel the most efficient is not always the most elegant, we are talking about using the least amount of processing power and memory). That if you don't know how to do something in Excel you'll be able to figure it out without help. There are so many resources on the web and you should know how to be able to look at other examples and apply it to your situation. You should be familiar with VBA, not just using the macro recorder. Know what situations when it is better to use VBA than excel functions (in most situations you want to avoid VBA because 1. It makes it difficult for other users to follow your spreadsheet and 2. Excel functions are much more optimized and generally perform tasks much faster). Know how to build spreadsheets that are easy for others to follow you work; write comments etc.. Nothing is worse than trying to figure out a cluster fuck of a spreadsheet. I would not expect you to be an expert in VBA and to be able to write something in depth from scratch but rather be able to figure it out using outside resources. Since I am not writing in VBA on daily basis I forget shit all the time but if there is something that needs to be done I can guarantee you I will figure out how. Knowledge of how to integrate Excel with a database via VBA is good (for both pulling in data and updating a database). Tl;dr 1. Don't downplay your Excel knowledge but don't make yourself out to be an Excel God, you never know how much knowledge the other person has 2. Demonstrate that you have experience with commonly used Excel-related functions; efficient construction of workbooks 3. Demonstrate that if you don't know how to do something in Excel you will be able to figure it out; provide an example 4. Knowledge of VBA is good, especially integrating with outside databases. Provide example of a time you used VBA and why you did. Best way to learn this stuff is through experience; If you want me to critique your Excel work I would happy to. The following project would give you good experience: Download data for 20 countries (just choose at random, make sure you include U.S. though) on GDP in US dollar current prices and PPP basis for all years. from IMF http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/weo/2012/01/weodata/index.aspx 1. Build a dash board that calculates the year-over-year growth of both GDP $, and GDP PPP 2. Set it so you can dynamically select which country to display 3. Set it up so you dynamically change start and end date 3. The chart should automatically adjust its range based on the date selected 4. Create three aggregates, developing countries, developed countries and world EX US 5. With these aggregates have an option to show the y/y growth using either the average (mean) or on a GDP weighted basis. This is just an idea that would give you some good experience. It is not anything I need so only do it if you want to build your skills.