I haven't read the paper, but have read similar papers before, will likely read this paper here in a while. I can see the use for patents to a degree. Not the way they are now, but in some form or another I think they should still exist. I am not under the delusion of they help innovate. I see them more or less as bringing stability to the marketplace/business. The changes I would like to see made, is on certain patents, or probably all patents, that they expire at a certain time. Or if the patent is not put to use in a given time frame that it falls back into the public domain. Expired patents being fully searchable online, for free. I would also disallow any patenting of genes, or anything that nature has produced and or made. If some one makes a new element, or makes an absolutely new gene that has been seen, or found any where else, then sure patent it. But something that already exists? No. I agree that patents do stifle creativity, and ultimately do harm us as a developing nation. Especially in it's current iteration. The solution I briefly went over would give a happy medium. It would do much less harm than now, and offer better innovation down the road. The stability question with relation to business/marketplace is how certain products are made and produced. Some people put a lot of time and effort into developing something and they need a little protection in doing it. 7 years or so should be enough to recoup that back and then some. After that time they can still produce said product, but would have to compete against everyone else who uses a similar design. All in all I think every one can agree that the patent/copyright system needs serious overhaul, and not because it is too weak, but it is because it was designed, and implemented in a 20th century mindset, not a 21st. It worked somewhat well in the early 1900's but since then it has not. Things move at a faster rate now than they did then. As such in this day in age it is a lot stronger than it needs to be, and needs to be dialed back in a lot of areas. It needs to be overhauled by people who know the area well, and have no financial stake in the system one way or the other. Possibly people in academia with knowledge on the system and can offer valid arguments for it's change, and help to bring in common sense reforms to the system. With how fucked up it is now, it would probably be best to just scrap the system, and design a new system from the ground up. All currently held patents now have a 7 year life span. If the patent is not in current use, you have a year to show that you are working toward using the patent, rather than just shelving it so no one else can use it.