"I think you are right. Even given both the randomness of Monopoly (roll of dice, shuffle of chance/community chess cards), and the skill differentiation between players (my model took this into account) it is deterministic enough that once the game is played for X interval, the randomness cannot overcome the previous outcomes. In fact, what we actually see is a hardening of those outcomes over time (ie: just continuing to play the game exacerbates the inequality as the previously handicapped player keeps landing on property already owned by the previously un-handicapped players). I think the conclusions are completely based on how deterministic you think our capitalist/democratic system is - or, more simply, how well Monopoly serves as a metaphor for our economy. I think we can answer that question (or at least determine how we individually feel about it) by raising a simple thought experiment. Imagine you live on a road where there are 4 families and the parents sit down to play Monopoly one night. 3 of the families are white and the parents are racists and set the rules unfairly against the 4th family. After 2 hours of play, the adults from the 4th family are losing miserably and everyone decides to go home. The next morning, before the adults wake up, the kids from each family decide to play Monopoly together as well. But this new generation isn't racist at all. They announce ""the rules will be the same for everyone from here on out""! The children from the black family are relieved and begin to clean up the board from the previous night and start the game over. But the other 3 families object - ""wait, no, my family earned that! We start where we left off!"". It seems to me this is very similar to how our economy works. The vast majority of our wealth within generations is spent on raising the next generation (from the homes, food, health, and clothes we purchase to better educational opportunities, and finally direct-wealth transition through inheritance or at least financially sufficient parents that don't require investments from grown children in retirement). I think it is a plausible theory that doesn't require us to say that anyone is racist or anyone is inferior. It would also explain phenomenon like this: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2017/09/28/black-and-hispanic-families-are-making-more-money-but-they-still-lag-far-behind-whites/"