"It's all good. The statement that someone has to move out of the way for someone else is a different discussion. If you want to be hired as a CEO, the most likely path to get ""hired"" is an Ivy League education and very strong background in your own company. http://www.bestcolleges.com/features/colleges-with-highest-number-fortune-500-ceo-graduates/ If that is not possible, the second choice is going to be being highly skilled in your field and working your way up. That's going to take skill, networking, luck, and a very strong drive to not just be the best in your field, but the best in the industry for the job. Tim Cook (AAPL) is a graduate of Duke and Auburn. Jack Welch commanded GE with an education from UMass and the University of Illinois. They both showed an intense passion for the companies they worked in. The third choice is going to be starting your own company with your own passion and intelligence and backing that with other people who share your passion. Take everything from column A, column B, and marry yourself to your passion and you find this list. Reed Hastings, Micheal Dell, Steve Jobs (post Pixar was learning and failing spectacularly), Larry Ellison, Jean Paul Dejoria (guy has a really cool story about coming up. http://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenbertoni/2013/10/28/business-tips-from-once-homeless-billionaire-john-paul-dejoria/), Sheldon Adelson (He made me over a million by bringing LVS back from 1.50 to 77. I wish I'd bought more), Howard Shultz (Starbucks), The list goes on and on and on. When it is time for them to exit, they pick from the first two examples to fill the position. Smaller companies have several different exit strategies they can employ. There is one thing you will find with every Fortune 500 and Fortune 50 company. They don't do it for the money. The money happens, but by the time you have established yourself as CEO, you have more than you will spend and you know it. There will come a day that you realize you can buy a Bentley, but you may or may not want to. It's just a car. You can buy a double door glass sub zero, but you probably wont. It's stuff and that's not what wakes you up in the morning. I'm not saying money isn't important (it is and it's not. Once you have the ""A ha! moment I am talking about, it becomes a way of keeping score). But it's not the passion that drives some of these men to work until the day they die with a grin on their faces. For the guys who think it's about money, ask yourself why CEOs get diagnosed with cancer and never stop working outside treatment. Your first instinct may be to be with people you love or travel the world. They are already around people they love and doing what the love every day. An important ingredient to their happiness is a love of their product and the people they choose to directly manage. If I'm not friends or close enough to trust a GM with my house keys, I wont keep him or her. Scale that. Of course you can find examples of CEOs who are assholes or ones like Schireson who have hit a point where they love their family more than their company and can't find balance. I took the last 8 years off of business building because I simply wasn't in love with any of my businesses. It wasn't until recently that I found that fire again (mainly from people in my own network wanting to find a new career path and having a surplus of talent I can leverage). If you want to be a CEO, it's going to come from PASSION. Good for Schireson. This probably wont be the last we hear of him or the last company he runs. It's a bug that bites you and a set of skills you develop. If you don't have those skills you might as well just be a lobbyist or a lawyer. I'm not tech though. I would love to say I can speak from experience there, but that's simply not my passion. Perhaps they are a different animal. You have a few former CEOs and owners here that occasionally chime in. The one takeaway from someone like Sheepman would boil down to this. Do you have the kind of passion to match someone like Richard Branson? Do you have business acumen to match? If not, no one is ""holding your spot"". If so, why do you want to follow someone's passion if it's not your own in an already crowded or well funded space? If you do, you are already planning your next company anyway. TL;DR Being a successful CEO is about passion and not money"