"> Because something is legal doesn't make it the ethical choice. > > You fail to demonstrate what is unethical about minimizing tax burdens. Operating in a country that allows you to make profit, in my opinion, establishes a duty to pay one's fair share of taxes. Paying legislators to make laws enabling tax avoidance is, in my mind, unethical. Clearly we have a different idea of what is ethical and not. > corporations making huge profits using the infrastructure of the region > >Did the corporations have an option to refuse using that infrastructure, and instead provide their own or work with others to develop a competing infrastructure? Yes. > Keep in mind that these favorable tax laws were lobbied by corporations with the intent to avoid taxes in mind. >>You have failed to support any argument that there is anything wrong with minimizing tax burden. That's like your opinion man. I don't think minimizing taxes by paying off legislators is equitable..call me crazy. >If I'm walking behind someone and they happen to drop a $100 bill without noticing, I can certainly pick it up and put it in my pocket legally, but its hardly the moral thing to do. >>A more relevant example is if I order a pizza, have it sent to your house, then show up later with a bill for the pizza and my costs to send it to you, demanding you pay it. You never asked for the pizza, maybe you didn't want the pizza, maybe you didn't eat the pizza, maybe you don't like pizza, or don't like that kind of pizza. That I choose to send you a pizza does not obligate you to pay for that pizza. Lost me on this one bro..I thought we were talking ethics..not surprise pizzas. How about this one: I go to your house, use your kitchen and ingredients to make a pizza, sell the pizza for a profit and give you nothing even though we had an agreement that if I could make a profit I would give you some. However, I decide to talk to your roommate and give him a measly dollar to say ""forget about it bro..I said it's cool""."