First of all, I didn't say anything about Bitcoin - nothing I said was even related to Bitcoin but rather the inherent value of the market beyond a cryptocurrency. This market is at the beginning stages right now, so of course you are going to have schemes and scammers, why wouldn't you? The established financial market as it stands today has been around for a while and still has schemes and scammers. Wherever there is money, specifically copious amounts of money, you will have people trying to game the system or pull the wool over other people's eyes. Sometimes in life, the sheep get slaughtered, so I am not really sure why certain people losing their ass in crypto could be considered different from people losing their ass in other financial instruments. You ever been to /r/wallstreetbets? Your basic view is more than likely developed from what you are reading in main stream outlets, which is why I encouraged you to go beyond what you are reading in the easily accessible, and often way behind and misinformed, news sources and go straight to the updated and credible sources, usually from the developers themselves. ICOs alone have proven themselves to be a new and revolutionary capital raising instrument. It makes sense that traditional and conservative finance communities would be opposed to it because it disrupts their ecosystem and gives not only very new companies, but non-accredited investors an opportunity to participate. When major VCs are able to look at ICOs, which are in direct competition to their industry and purpose, and say to themselves wow, what an innovative way to raise capital - that's a big deal. Regarding anonymity, the purpose of most cryptocurrencies and protocols isn't focused on that, it is usually a side effect of the decentralization of the ecosystem in general. Bitcoin isn't even a top coin for anonymity, which is again why I suggested you research the industry. Several projects are being launched and have been launched that will help revolutionize certain areas of the web, ranging from predictive markets with projects like Augur and Gnosis, to the Golem Network which taps into idle computer time for users that need additional computing power. Even something like Steem which is essentially a social platform similar to reddit which utilizes its own token system so content creators within the ecosystem can receive monetary payment for their time and contribution to the site and the community from other users. Imagine instead of an upvote, you received money. To reiterate, we are at the beginning stages of seeing what is to come in the space. Many of these projects will fail, and many new ones will launch. As blockchain technology continues to grow not only individually, but in tandem with the IoT industry, there are scenarios where machines are interacting, bartering, and negotiating with each other, without human interaction or intervention, to agree on payments for products and services and then conducting said payments.