"Actually 19th century shipped you to us to pretend teaching how ""progress"" is made, when you only seek to send us backwards. The childish thing said : >It'a a totally different situation. [*And you* (as I think you don't live in North Korea) *still have the choice to leave and reseign if you want btw*] Yes, fina lly some sense. Taxation isn't an act of buying its a totally different situation. Taxation was extortion when it was used by despots for ""protection"", when in fact it was just financing a private interest. But taxation through parliamantary voted law isn't, its the community democratically represented that decide on the rule of majority that there is a need for public services or redistribution to happen in the community. And to do so they decide while granted power by the people to implement taxation. That said, the US govt is frankly corrupted and the US system quite unperforming, but they still somehow protect your rights. The dudes in Irak or Afghanistan are a problem, but the militray is much more than that, protection from invasion is the main utility and your world status as THE power proove you achieve that. This allow you to have access to whole range of products and ressources cheaply and in abundance (agriculture in SA and Africa, Oil etc..), thats for the military. All the thing that make your country a ""great"" one are funded by your taxes, from your education to your financial sector. You fund your world status and your society status among nation with your taxes. You don't want that ? As I said, you are still free to leave your country and reseign your citizenship. Why ? Because as I see it the majority of your population aren't agaisnt paying taxes, or else they would continuously elect dickwads republicans. ""Nah its mah country, gna gna gna"" not its not, your country was built by a community,a society that decide though your state/s certain things have to be set up like taxes. You don't want to comply ? Fine, overthrow them or find a ""country"" free zone. {GOOD LUCK}."