"> The base value from infrastructure is derived on a per-capita basis. It is a ""fixed cost"" as opposed to a variable one. In other words, roads are just as useful to me as they are to you regardless of my net worth. A1: Misleading: Infrastructure is useful to those who use it more independently of classifying it as [fixed vs variable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fixed_cost). Take the FAA for example. The poor who cannot afford a plane ticket and/or order things via next-day air derive very little benefit from the FAA compared to a person who owns their own aircraft and can fly out at a moments notice knowing full well they can file a flight plan and communicate with a network of airports to ensure their plane will not crash into any other jets. >A tank, a missile, a police officer protects me the same as it does anyone else. A2: But, A person with more net worth has more to lose than a person with low net worth. Therefore, even independent of A1 above, your statement is false. Those examples protect those with more property/net-worth/etc more-so than those with less. > B) As a percentage of income, infrastructure is far more valuable to low-income individuals than high-income individuals It depends on the infrastructure: But there is far more infrastructure protecting the wealthy than the poor. Your example is the stock market. Why should the vast majority of people pay for SEC and rules and regulations to require/enforce honest filings when they cannot afford stock? Who benefits from SEC infrastructure. You and I do. Value to poor as a percentage of income = 0% . Value to rich > 0% . QED. Your roads argument as an example of poor using more infrastructure than the rich is a bad one. The poor are more likely to take public transportation and/or work within 5 miles of their residence. The rich are more likely to have multiple cars, live in gated areas far from work and take long road trips. Staying at home to work is a function of more than just owning stock. There are at-home-parents, IT professionals, programmers, VOIP operators, etc, all working from home and completely independent of road use. > C) The activities of business owners generate massive tax revenues. These far outweigh their personal utility from infrastructure. C1: ""personal utility"" You are mixing corporate and personal taxes and yet calling out ""personal"" utility. Unless you are talking about business owners flowing income to personal income (e.g. S-Corp) the mixing of terms is unfortunate because both business and people use infrastructure and both should pay for it. C2: ""Far outweigh"" Not true: See examples A1 and A2 above. And I'll go one more. Taxes on businesses are on NET revenue not gross revenue (ignoring things like SS and FICA). You probably invest in businesses with dividends and there is an incentive to keep a net revenue that can be distributed to stockholders. But in the private world there is no such motivation. In fact there is an anti-motivation to show profit as low as possible to limit tax liability. This has led to many ""hacks"" of the tax code/expenses to make sure that businesses end up with negative tax liability or an effective rate that is close to 0. How many poor people can claim negative tax liability? Again 0 > not-zero. >D) Society captures the majority of individual commercial efforts (estimates vary, but typically 85%). In other words, if I generate $10.00 of value as an entrepreneur, I will realistically be able to capture only $1.50 of that. D1: wat? Vague. Not all commercial efforts have a positive impact on the community. Irrelevant since we are talking about use vs cost. etc."