"Careful, this could be a scam. But if not.. There is no feasible way to turn that into cash without a very good reason that will require your banker to know you, as a depositor, reasonably well. And it sounds like you aren't banked at all. If this is your money, please pay attention - Class in America is defined by financial knowledge. If you are unbanked and lower class, $2M is actually dangerous - read a book called ""Money for Nothing"" about what happens to lottery winners. Honestly the tendency is for lower-class people to be possessed to keep making lower-class financial decisions, which directly lead them to be broke and bankrupt in months regardless of the size of the windfall. So making decisions differently is literally rehab.. No exaggeration. To change your thinking, you'll want to read Suze Orman, John Bogle and Napoleon Hill. For an American who thinks about money the way the upper-middle-class does, $2M in the bank means the end of the 9-5 grind. He will still need to work, but will be able to be much more selective about choosing jobs which are fulfilling. It brings him the utopia we were promised. If you are currently unbanked, you will simply need to get banked to handle a check of this size. Handling this much cash is literally impossible due to the RICO laws designed to stop drug dealing and money laundering. Even if you split it into many small amounts, that itself is structuring which is a felony all its own. So let's get banked. A $2M check is a terrible entré into the banking world because it makes you smell like a criminal or scammer at first introduction. I could deposit one no problem because I have 10 years of history with my bank. But you, you'll need to convince the bank you're the real deal, and give them reason to trust you. Be prepared to that ""trust"" to include depositing some money.. at the least, the bank will want to know you're good for the bad-check fees they suspect will follow. Go to a local bank or savings-and-loan that you trust, the smaller the better, and sit down with a banker. Describe your situation honestly and have him open an account and deposit the check. If your burned your ability to open checking accounts with a ChexSystems mark, you'll need to be more selective about banks and be honest about that to the banker. And wait a month for that check to clear positively, believe me your banker will be watching that. At that point, if you want great bunches of the money out quickly, it'll need to be in the form of a cheque or bank check. Cash ain't gonna happen, nor should it. The reason is, again, the RICO laws. Of course, if you are a criminal or scam victim, none of the above applies, sorry."