">In regards to the government's size: I personally believe it is much too large. Here I would agree, and yet disagree at the same time. Wait.. WTF do I mean by that? Well, take for example your local county ""justice"" (courthouse) operation. Chances are the number of judges hearing cases has increased only SLIGHTLY from the number a century ago (at most they have probably doubled the number of judges). This despite the fact that the population has likely increased by fivefold or even tenfold, and the amount of statutes and regulations people being charged with violating has probably increased a hundredfold or more. *End result: a justice system that relies upon rather blatant coercion (escalating the charges in order to force a ""plea"" deal and so to prevent the vast majority of cases from actually going to a trial, much less a ""trial by jury"" thus effectively turning the 6th amendment into a farcical hollow shell).* What has increased in size and scope instead (and not only in relation to the population increase, but many, many times greater increase) .. the number of police, the number of ""jailers"", and probation/parole officers, etc. Likewise, whereas when the country was founded each Congressman represented a fairly small number of constituents (IIRC initially one for every 30,000 people -- basically the equivalent of what today would be a ""mayor"" for a small to mid sized country town). But NOW, most congressmen have far in excess of a MILLION constituents. *End result: representation (and the ""accountability"" elections are supposed to enable) has, similar to the aforementioned ""justice"" system, become a farcical thing.* (Cf http://www.thirty-thousand.org/) And again, what has happened in the place of an ""expansion of representation""? The inordinate multiplication of (almost entirely) unaccountable ""bureaucrats""; echoes of the Declaration of Independence which states (in the list of complaints against the King of England), to wit: *""He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers to harass our people and eat out their substance.""* --- *So it isn't really so much the simple measure of the SIZE of government, as it is* **the specific ways and places and (unconstitutional) roles** *into which the additional personnel have been added.*"