"Let me paint you a picture to show you why this does not make sense. It is never fair to ask a business to pay a ""living wage"". It is always fair to ask a worker to chose their jobs based on their needs. Here's why. I ran a business when I was a teenager, doing web development. I did not make very good money but it pushed me to learn and to teach myself to meet the needs of the few clients that I did manage to find. Over the course of the business the thought had crossed my mind to maybe get help from my peers, maybe talk to classmates and see if any of them might have wanted to go into business with me, help me drum up more work, or help me do design or development. As soon as the thought crossed my mind I realized right away that I would never be able to do it, because the regulation was just way too big for little old sole-proprietorship me to deal with. Not only was it confusing, but it was dangerous to me, if I did it wrong I knew I could be sued and lose more than my tiny little business made. On top of the regs involved, I personally was not making minimum wage! What I was making though, was experience. This was more valuable than all the money I made combined, because I worked this way by myself for three years, learning more about my craft all the while. I have parlayed that experience into a ten year long career that currently supports my family, working for someone else. Now imagine if I could pay anyone whatever we both agreed on. Imagine if I could talk to a classmate in highschool and say ""hey, im not making much, but I can pay you x to start with and I will certainly teach you what I know"". it always struck me as selfish, unearned moral superiority to sit here and mandate a minimum wage, you price teenagers and entry-level workers out of the market because people can't afford an army of $20 per hour workers. Its so ignorant of the narrow margins that these business have to face. It is also really short-sighted and money-obsessed to boil a job down to it's wages alone. Minimum wage destroys an ancient method of generating skilled workers: the apprentice system. Also, there is a really ugly moral side to this. Person A offers person B X amount to do Y.. Why does the government have the right to say ""No! you can't pay them X because it is not X enough!"". Our economy and work is far more complex than minimum wage. it is an old idea that is nothing but a drain on our economy. TL;DR - I would have added three or more skilled workers to our economy in high school if I did not have to pay them minimum wage. I personally was priced out of hiring people because of it, so I hate it. Millennials need not wonder why no one can find a job."