"There are a few different ways you can look at this. You can't really take money out of the economy, as it can't ""leave society"" and the economy is the interaction of society. One example kind of close to this was a multi-millionaire died without an heir with millions in his bank account. The bank will continue to use the funds, but the money itself won't be spent. Some people saw this as a ""waste"", like value was lost, but really all it does (hoarding money or even burning it) is change the money supply. That being said there are two approaches to looking at capitalism as a *balanced* ecosystem. One is Keynesianism, which focuses on demand. The other is Marxism, which focuses on more internal mechanisms of capitalism. Both are concerned with inequality. With high inequality, those with capital tend to have more reinvestment as a percentage of income/wealth. With a return on investment this will increase inequality. The Keynesian issue is that this will lower demand, creating imbalance in the economy and long-term problems to function. The answer was more redistribution and higher labor wages. For Marxists, they believe that capitalism generates endless ""capital accumulation"", not because of a demand component, but because of labor theory of value. That wealth and value is not determined by the market, but at exploitation of labor. On this critical side you have critiques of the fetishism of market value. With high inequality you have money ""leaving the system"" in what some call waste--something not socially useful. Baran and Sweezy in ""Monopoly Capital"" talk about this in the form of things like military spending, and, I think, advertisement. But it can also relate to the generation of ""wealth"" (opposed to income). Things that don't hold inherent value, like art, becomes investment. You can't say it is ""taken out of "" the economy, but the value itself is generated by those who can purchase it. Though, I believe this value fetishism is more an outcome of the contradictions, rather than the cause. What it does contribute to contradictions, however, is the rise of speculation. Rather than consumption or productive investment, accumulation will increasingly become speculative. Real estate is usually the primary example. Many people buy houses, condos, or land, not for use, but for the expectation that the value will go up. When bad enough this can reshape the market, so for people who aren't investing their rent/living cost increases. This likewise happens with stocks and other financial investments. Again, it can't really ""leave the economy"", but it makes it more difficult for the ""traditional"" or productive and labor economy to operate."