While not entirely untouchable, a college fund can also be in the form of an Indexed Universal Life (IUL) contract through a life insurance agent. These often net a higher rate of return annually than any savings account, are not going to tank if the market does, and can be owned by you for the child. If no one else is on the policy, they have no access to it. You can name yourself the beneficiary as well. There's several very nice features to doing your child's college funding this way. You can ask that the contract is established for maximum cash value. This means the death benefit isn't the overriding need so the premiums you pay fill the cash value of the contract much more quickly. As mentioned in point 1., the contract has a death benefit. No other savings device will grant you this. Heaven forbid the child passes while you are saving for college. Now you will have a tax free benefit that will pay for burial and other related costs and can be used to fund yet another IUL policy if you have more than one child. Unlike other policies, you can set your minimum monthly premium and have the flexibility to add as much as you would like to fill the fund faster if you happen to come into more money and you want to direct it to that contract. There are ceilings to this so that you don't create a modified endowment contract (MEC. Look this up at investopedia), but this is specifically stated in your illustration so that you can keep your contributions a penny under that limit. Unlike college loans, you have extremely quick access to the funds when you need them (probably counter-intuitive to your desire for untouchable money). This can be achieved a couple of ways. You can borrow money from the insurer using your IUL cash value as collateral. Often, a check can be cut within 48 hours. This eliminates the time a normal lender takes in making the loan decision. Or, you can surrender the policy and take the cash value (paying taxes on your gains). The first keeps the policy in force while you pay back the loan if you desire. The second cancels the policy so that you can take your own accumulated money out. Utilizing an IUL in this manner can (but not always) lower your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) with colleges so that you could qualify for higher student aid. If your income puts you in the middle class, you would be wise to note this in particular. Having control over your EFC is major benefit. (If you'll read the link above, you notice the UGMA isn't necessarily the best idea as schools look to the student to give a higher percentage of their own assets than the parent.) Ultimately, while the IUL is a little known method for saving for college (and some will argue what they may) it would benefit you to speak with an insurance professional about this option. Ask if the insurer has access to the SAGE Rewards program (https://secure.tuitionrewards.com/). The program is a free benefit if you purchase a cash value contract like an Indexed Universal Life policy and activates IF the agency participates. The child earns tuition credits for every birthday of your child (not retroactive) and for having the policy. If you do an annual review, you earn more tuition credits. I have established these for clients and some have sent their child to college with more than 44k in college funding (split out over four years). The point system is 1 credit = 1 tuition dollar. Quite unlike air miles! For those of you reading this that have similar concerns, please consult an with an agent (or feel free to contact me) to get up to date advice on how to structure these. They are simple and efficient and have significant upside for college funding.