">However, the caveat I will add is that if you go into DEBT for your education, you should certainly be thinking about the economic value your education can provide you. I agree, but we're not going to have that discussion when many parents don't understand debt accurately and the ones that do are the ones whose kids aren't as likely to need big loans. >At the end of the day though, these findings are all moot unless we can have a conversation about the hyperinflation in college costs directly related to 'free' aka subsidized education. The hyperinflation isn't because college costs are subsidized - federal loans still have caps. It's because student loans can't be discharged in bankruptcy in the vast majority of cases. That means that private loans are available, which means the federal loan caps are effectively useless. ""Free"" college would have its challenges, and we'd need to make private loans dischargable in bankruptcy (which would in turn make banks lend to only credit-worthy students/co-signers using appropriate risk models) but then we'd also be able to make other adjustments. There are some things that we could probably be doing now, but others might be too easily corruptible without the market correction of private loans only to those who are credit-qualified. We could put more stringent requirements on grade point averages, for example. If you don't hit that, you don't get your free college. You can continue going, if you go get private loans. Not able to qualify? Time to do something else then. Work and save for college, trade school, enter the workforce permanently, etc. (This wouldn't work as well if private loans were still easily obtainable and non-dischargable, because there could be shady dealings to make more people not eligible for the ""free"" assistance with some type of crazy obstacles, etc.) We could do things like cap the costs for particular programs. If you want to study mechanical engineering, you can get up to X amount, but if you're studying early French poetry, you can only get up to Y amount. Yes, we could do that now, but I don't love the idea of putting those type of restrictions when it's the student paying. it seems a bit of an overreach. There are lots of ways we could be addressing things, but we aren't."