"> There are more types of ads than banner ads you see in the margins of websites, and they can't be blocked by ad blockers. Its a huge industry, saying it's going to die is pretty naive. It's difficult to formulate a polite response, my message inbox is flooded with people who obviously have no idea what they're talking about, telling me about how my ad blockers aren't blocking the ads which I know they are blocking. And this account is new which means I can't respond to everyone without waiting unreasonable numbers of minutes. so I want to make one response that's really good instead. I am willing to bet that I have more knowledge and experience with the internet, technology, and computers than everyone in this thread combined. So you go on thinking I'm naive or whatever, but really you are the naive one for underestimating my expertise on the subject. I am absolutely aware of what sort of ads are blocked by my ad blockers and what sorts arent. I belong to the class of people who taught you all how to use this stuff. All of the advertising that Google and Facebook use for their revenue is blocked. When you pay for ads on reddit, I don't see those. When you pay for adwords links on search engines, I don't see those. When you pay for video ads on youtube content, I don't see those. The only things that get through are things which cannot be detected such as spam posts posing as real content. But because I am a smart person I am capable of recognizing when an article is trying to sell me something. That is what you are getting at, unless you're completely wrong and just being stupid, but I'm giving you the benefit of the doubt. And while that tangent is true, it's irrelevant to the meat of the conversation, which is that the traditional methods of advertising, things like pay per click and number of impressions, things like adwords and facebook's ""boosted posts"", all of that is going away. If you rely on those things for your revenue stream you better start looking for other sources of income today because in a few years those streams will be completely dried up. You can listen to me, because I am an expert on this technology and this culture which I have been using for 26 years, or you can convince yourself that you know better even tho we both know you do not. I don't know why it hurts your pride to get advice from someone who knows better than you, but that's my guess at why you and others are so defensive about this particular subject, that and because it's your bread and butter. I'm warning you, NOW is the time to look for other income generators, not 5 years from now when the entire advertising model is dead. (5 years is a guess, it could be sooner, it could be later, it will be.) I suspect you're also afraid that you won't be able to find a new revenue model, but I think that fear is unfounded. People are creative, and have been inventing new ways to make money since money was invented. I'm telling you now is the time to do that, you should be thanking me."