"Most other countries are worse off. Your perception of what is a resource intensive lifestyle does not take into consideration future innovation or adaptation. Government debt is large but not insurmountable. Much of it is owned by the government itself (social security trust fund and the federal reserve) and by domestic banks. The ""crumbling infrastructure"" claim is often made but is rarely articulated well so it's hard to respond to. Entitlements is a bit more complicated an issue due to political gridlock, but I expect that at least minor changes will be made gradually that will help deal with this problem. If not major reform, small things like pushing back the benefit age a year here and a year there, repealing benefits for the wealthy, reducing the size of cost of living adjustments, reducing the amount that is paid out to higher earning recipients, increasing the amount of yearly income that is subject to FICA.. These are piecemeal changes that both sides could agree to even in the current political climate. Medicare is the bigger cost, but how to deal with that is difficult to determine considering what's going on with obamacare. Municipal and state governments will not fail if they go bankrupt. Most municipalities and states are able to balance a budget. It can be done but in some place it isn't because politicians don't have enough backbone to say no. When they go bankrupt and are unable to borrow money, they will have no choice and can blame their cuts on the banks who won't loan them money. That is, unless the people running the federal government also have no backbone and decide to bail them out, in which case we will have an enormous case of moral hazard on our hands. The economic dominoes in Europe and China are not damaging the core of their economies. Unless Europe breaks apart violently and goes to war with itself or China has a civil war, the basic aspects of their economy that make them a valuable part of the global economy will not go away. Their productive capacities will remain intact and we'll still want to buy stuff from each other. The beauty of free market capitalism is that it's so adaptable and the fact that things are changing does not mean that everyone will be worse off. Whether or not the US is above everyone else in the end is mostly irrelevant, but the fundamental aspects of the US economy that make it among the strongest in the world will not change because of these things. Our workforce will remain highly educated, very productive and very innovative. We have the best farmland in the world and a lot of it, enormous amounts of natural resources, a relatively flexible and adaptable economy and a tremendous amount of wealth. There may be troubles related to certain institutions and governing bodies, but remember that those things are not the economy. The economy is the people, the things they can make, the things they know, and the things that they can do."