Okay, you win the argument. I say this because I am giving up. The problem is this. Seriously think about what I'm saying. I say I have a problem with the way the system is. You say, no, this is wrong, you shouldn't have a problem with how the system is, because . . . and then you go and describe the parts of the system, and recite the reasons given for why those parts are the way they are. Okay? That's not an argument. That's elaborating on a definition. Your arguments aren't your own, and that's what proves you don't know what you're talking about. You need to stop pretending that because you just learned how there's a money multiplier, it must be this way because of some law of economics. It's not. Did you know that in the Middle East for example, they do not have this banking system? I'm not trying to start an argument about the better system, my point is that, dude, you don't even know that, and it undermines this whole mechanistically determined little financial ecosystem you're just assuming is a law of economic nature. Also, I never brought up any supposed need to go to a gold standard, but nice try. Further proof you are not really reading what I'm saying, and making assumptions. Why? Because you're gullible, and anything that seems establishment or widely accepted, that's what you go along with. Everyone who is critical of the Federal Reserve system and its existence must be a tinfoil hat wearing anti-Semite who believes 9/11 was done by reptilian aliens. I get it, believe me. If the Fed's job is to prevent the economy from collapsing overnight due to fluctuations in the price of money, when why did it not collapse overnight before the Fed existed? Wait, no. I'm done. You win. This is all in your imagination anyway, so I'll let you have it. Please go back and read my posts and just once sit back and say, okay, can I see any of this from this guy's perspective? Also, we did not abandon the gold standard at Bretton Woods. SERIOUSLY WTF. Ugh, I can't help you. Go on and look up stuff you just learned and keep pretending to argue with people by slapping something someone else said that sounds relevant into a paragraph with no real understanding of what you're saying.