"nicodiangelo16.blogspot.com — Tired of falling for business opportunities and franchises that don't live up to their promises? Try our revealing reviews - unique forensic analyses that expose the good, the bad and the ugly This site is financed by you, instead of by biz opp ads and commission links You pay us to be unbiased - so we are ""It's the only unbiased info on the market that I've come across.""Carl, Business Opportunity Watch member since 2005 Review of SHARON FUSSELL SOLD DISPATCH NOW GOLD Make money selling books on Amazon Canonbury Publishing Sharon Fussell Sold Dispatch Now Gold Review extract from: August 2009 BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY WATCH Issue No. 30 Buy the Sharon Fussell Sold Dispatch Now Gold Review for £3 or Members Only Area - Free Trial - Read All Reviews Extract from review of Sold Dispatch Now Sharon Fussell: Sharon Fussell says that her Sold Dispatch Now Gold business ""is as simple as buying books for pennies from easy-to-find sources - and then reselling them on for huge profits"". She says you can make £200 to £300 every week with Sold Dispatch Now Gold and ""you can set it up in just 10 minutes!"", it's not hard work and you don't need computer experience. You don't need a lot of books either - according to Sharon Fussell, a stock of 500-600 books means that you can sell 25 per week and make £6,000 a year. You just buy the books from easy-to-find sources (she tells you how) and list them for sale on Amazon. Sharon Fussell has been following the Sold Dispatch Now Gold system for three years and she now has a turnover of £26,741 a year. She's given up her old day job. The Sold Dispatch Now Gold manual costs £77 and it does come with a CD Rom demonstration of how Sharon Fussell operates her business and it includes her email support and a 28-day no-quibble money back guarantee. Is it really that easy to make £200 to £300 a week? We sent the company a number of questions .... (review continues) Discover the truth about Sharon Fussell's Sold Dispatch Now."