"That's not the case where I'm located. Techs are hired ""temp to hire"" on contract. They are paid less than permanent employees. They aren't given any of the benefits of permanent employees. They are, just as the article says, treated like second class employees. Even third class at one company I worked for. And they are strung along with ""we just aren't hiring right now"" lines and told ""we'll extend your contract again and see if we are hiring at the end next time"". I was laid off from a full time position because we were bought out by another company. I spent 7 months unemployed. I got a call for contract work and it only lasted two weeks. I was paid significantly less than my previous full time job and was not offered any kind of benefits at all. When that contract was up I was offered a contract at another company. Again, I was paid significantly less than I was making before and I was strung along by that company for two years before another contract offered me more money. With that contract I was finally getting paid what I was getting paid at my last permanent position, but again I did not receive the same benefits as a full time employee. That contract let me go after 18 months due to policy that they couldn't string contractors along. I was told that I could wait 6 months and be hired again, though! I then spent four months unemployed until I found my next contract which then hired me full time after 6 months. I've been full time for 2 years here now, but who knows how long that'll last. I've seen companies suddenly ""restructure"", which means they bring in H1Bs. And I can't even blame this on me being a low level tech with no marketable skills. I've been in IT professionally for just a few months shy of 20 years. I've done everything from technical support, to security, to software QA, to system administration. I'm now in a job specializing in hardware. I have a resume that could be pages long with many different skill sets and roles. This is typical for nearly all of the contractors I know in this area. I run into people I know all the time floating from company to company around here. We're passed around like disposable commodities. But mention the word ""union"" and you'll get replaced with H1Bs. The tech industry is shitty that way."