">You bring up a very good point. If he cares so much about his employees, but it's just too inconvenient for him to run the company if his taxes go up 5%, why not sell it instead of putting 7000 people out of a job? Why threaten people when there's an obvious alternative? Hell, if he just wants to close it anyways, he could just give the company away. It's funny you think we're talking about only 5%, liabilities could go up 10-15%. It's not just taxes, its insurance liabilities and other requirements. What ""business"" experience do you have? You obviously aren't considering all the angles here. And it's not about caring or not caring about his employees. Believe it or not I'll bet he didn't start the company 40+ years ago to create jobs for his employees. Caring for employees only gets you so far, he probably cares for them as much as he cares about his office or his properties. But if one of his office became condemned and dealing with it became more stressful than profitable, guess what? He'd blow it up and never look back. >Nope. He explicitly states that he will downsize or close the company if there are any new taxes whatsoever on either him or the business. It's also worth noting that his company is currently more profitable than its ever been. But that comes down from somebody who has seen increased liabilities increased over the decades. Its all or nothing at this point. And it wouldn't be a tiny increase in liabilities. Gross profit =/= net profit. >What? Obama has used the argument ""you didn't build that"" to say you benefited from other people's taxes to get where you are. But guess what? Government existed just fine without increased taxes. It's only now that they want to maintain and will increase the level of spending they need more revenues and private participation in things like the healthcare plan. >Yeah so maybe he should cut his bullshit rhetoric when those jobs are on the line and the only one responsible for their fates is him. And if it's really too much of a bother for him to run the company if he's making slightly less money when he's already said he has more money than he'll ever need, he can promote someone else to run the company or just sell it. Saying he cares about his employees makes him a liar, criticizing people who spent beyond their means makes him a hypocrite, and his empty threats and brow beating make him a bully. Jobs are a byproduct of his goal and thus peripheral. They are that way for EVERY company. Unless it's a very small company the employees are not more important than the business itself. You keep portraying this as ""slightly less"" but its not, its millions and millions. The point is, it is his company and he can do whatever he wants. You obviously have no actual decision making business experience because if you did and talked to these people you'd realize they're not all greedy. Yes some make quite a bit of profit, but you'd also be amazed at all of the liabilities, government requirements and yes taxes they have to deal with. Right or wrong it's choice to decide what happens. not yours, not mine."