If you are intent on becoming a quant, I concur with most of the opinions in this thread - you will *need* a graduate degree, because it is a relatively small field, and it is densely populated with people who have graduate degrees specializing more closely in the field than Engineering will ever touch upon. However - don't give up searching for killer work opportunities, like the kind you are currently getting. If you maintain an excellent GPA, in combination with these work placements, you can easily secure a spot in a top degree program - you are placed in an 'EngSci' comparable program, meaning you will possess a top-notch understanding of math, and have demonstrated experience in business. If you plan to search for work in Canada after graduation, I would highly recommend getting your graduate degree from University of Toronto - while it is often a poorly regarded undergraduate finance school, when employers are looking for soft-skills (Ivey and Queens slaughter Rotman undergrads for job placements), absolutely no one disputes that University of Toronto students have a top-notch grasp of theory, and it is commonly regarded (from what I have heard, at least) as one of the toughest schools. At U of T, there are two degrees that might fit for your field - the [mmf](http://www.mmf.utoronto.ca/), and [MFE](http://www.economics.utoronto.ca/index.php/index/mfe). It would probably be prudent to call around, or tap people in the industry in NYC or Toronto to let you know which is preferable, or a best fit (I sense the mmf, but my opinion is next to worthless here). If you are interested in working in NYC, and have the money for a graduate degree in the States without putting yourself under a mountain of debt, get educated there - your program directors will know the Street better than those in Toronto, most likely. black_cows gave excellent advice, though I would add one thing - know that doing this work in Canada and the US are *very* different propositions, especially for the sell side. You probably know this, but look no further than places like WSO, or colleagues at internships, for horror stories related to hours, conditions, perks, pay, etc at American banks these days. (I have friends that have worked 55 hours *straight* in their offices. If you consider that a point of pride. go crazy! Otherwise. be wary.)