$1160 per month, lets say you only have one kid. Oh, wait, taxes are taken out. You really only have about $1,000 to work with. Cheapest rent in my area is about 400 a month, and then you're living in the ghetto. Seriously, a really not great place to raise a kid but I'm being generous here to prove a point. What's this? Walmart is not within walking distance of the ghetto? Damn, you need a car. Lets say you have about $100 a month in car payments for a pretty cheap car that just goes from A to B. Liability only insurance (being generous since if you're making payments you probably need more than liability only) also for another $40 a month. So we're already at 540. But since you need to drive to work, we need gas, too. Let's say you live between 5-10 miles from work. That means you drive about 20 miles a day, at least. Your car only gets about 20 miles to the gallon, probably less with city driving, and gas is about $4 a gallon, so $4 per day times 20 days a month (we'll assume you only work $5 a day) and there's another $80. $620 dollars so far. Assuming you actually cook at your house instead of eating out. $75 dollars is average for two people for food for a week, so that's $300 a month (4 weeks.) $920 so far. $80 left. Let's average your utility bill out. Lets say you don't even have AC, as you can go without it and just be incredibly uncomfortable in a temperate climate. Just normal electricity and heat in the winter, we'll GENEROUSLY make that a $50 a month bill to average out for the entire year. $30 left. In one full year, you've saved up $360! You're rich! No, wait..that kid you have probably needs school supplies. They're growing, too, so they probably need clothes. For that matter, you also need new clothes. Even used clothes from Goodwill can be costly over a year. I really hope your car doesn't break down because that can set you back at LEAST $200 most times. Also, better hope you don't get sick, because you don't have insurance and a doctors visit or emergency room visit could EASILY break that budget. No preventative care, either, so your risk of getting sick is substantially hire to begin with than the insured. I also have not included ANY luxury utility bills, let alone any kind of phone at all or especially internet. Also, all of this assumes that you work full time, which at WalMart most employees do NOT because Walmart wants to avoid being forced to give benefits to employees. Do you REALLY want to continue to sit on your high horse and tell me that people can make it raising a family on minimum wage?