">I'm curious to know if you or any of your relatives have ever been declared as being mentally ill or having a psychological disorder. There ARE (but only a handful) some valid ""mental illnesses"" -- but by and large the DSM is filled with little more than ""social scams"". And as far as anecdotes, I have known quite a few people who have been ""diagnosed"" with a wide variety of so called ""disorders"" -- most of them are quite happy to accept the label, as it can then be used as a justification for their behavior and/or for claiming benefits and malingering. (No one ever said that psychology wasn't a ""useful"" fraud -- a lot of people believe and think it to be quite ""useful"" -- just as a lot of other people think astrology is.) >If most of psychology is all BS, then that just makes everyone else stupid for spending all of their money to get ""treated."" And, really if we are that stupid (stupid enough to believe such a huge lie) I would then agree with the (25% of americans suffer from mental illness) statement because you have to be pretty stupid to be told such a huge lie and not figure it out. And.. whoever claimed that the majority of the human population were anything *but* easily duped idiots? I certainly never have. >Another thing: if it is so easy to tell that psychology is a scam, then why is there (in general) cross-field(scholars from physics, biology, history, language, medicine, etc) acceptance of psychology as a science? Chiefly because the majority of people in those other sciences (even the hard sciences) are rather dumb and easily duped themselves (most are mediocrities who have only ""rote"" knowledge of their own fields) -- and just as with religions, psychology/psychiatry offers a eclectic mixture of theoretical bases that they accept or reject on an ad hoc anecdotal basis, mostly without even any superficial investigation much less anything more thorough. (And in the cases where someone HAS investigated the claims/theories, the are often very easily debunked -- Cf John Ioannidis' work.) Add in that many drugs & substances (which pre-existed psychology & psychiatry) ARE in fact effective in changing thoughts and behaviors (duh! that's like saying water is ""wet"") -- and which have become the main ""tool"" (and then via a pragmatic extrapolation used to create a ""causal"" theoretical basis -- the whole ""brain chemical imbalance"" malarkey -- even though there is no objective evidence to validate the theory {beyond the affect of the drugs which cannot be independent evidence, since that would be tautological -- like saying the reason water is ""wet"" is because of it's ""wetness properties""})."