You should learn about it. Its a great program. Doctors in their residency or fellowship are on a J1 Visa. The J1 visa says they must leave the US and go home for two years before returning to the U.S. So to say foreign doctors affecting supply is not accurate. Its actually a crazy harsh rule that protects American doctors and artificially keeps Americans wages higher, because you know, the foreign doctor has to go home even if they are the best in your class. So your point about immigrants keeping wages low may be true in other cases like Tech. The problem occurs when the American doctors want to serve in metro areas with good homes, good private schools for their kids, communities, and hipster restaurants and art museums. So even though the American doctors are protected, even though Ameri an graduates wages are artifically higher because half their class was sent back to india, most of the US wont get an American born doctor even if they wanted one. So if you're a state like Iowa, or Nebraska, or the Dekotas, and you have no major attractions to lure doctors, no art musems, no operas houses, and major shortages of doctors in your area the federal gov't gives each state 30 waivers. So if you're a hospital a couple miles outside of des moines, Iowa, it doesn't make sense to send a perfectly well trained cardiologist home to India when you need one now. Otherwise your 20,000 people don't have a heart doctor. A program to protect American workers from foreign workers actually leads foreign workers to protect americn lives. In addition, your point about wages is wrong. Rural areas across the US pay the most because they are the most desperate. The supply of doctors wanting to practice in LA, Chicago,New York is very high, so the compensation is actually low. Its the rural doctors in small town America making in the 90th percentile. Many of them reject the great money on offer because who wants go practice in a town in the middle of nevada. The numbers are produced by MGMA. Your point about medical schools not increasing class sizes in correct. That is a problem. However, that is not without consequence. We have seen Nurse Practitioners scope of medicine begin to creep into family doctors scope to med schools refuse to increase class sizes. So because their is such a shortage, practices and clinics now are hiring NP's which affects supply and hurts wages of primary care doctors. So foreign doctors are not causing wages to go down. Infact, if you were an American family doctor your main worry is American nurse practitioners. MGMA provides all the data on this for you to enjoy lol in summary, i get it. I own a business. Supply and demand is everything. But with medicine its complicated. Small town Alabama needs a doctor too. Sunjab, whos actually a world class neurosurgeon that could be working at the Mayo Clinic chooses to practice in small town Alabama just to stay here. That small town gets a doctor! Sunjab doesnt have to go home. Foreigners are not always the enemy of capitalism. Sometimes they keep it alive. Pay attention next time you are in a small town. That foreign doctor is probably awesome!