"I was just reading Consumer Reports' December 2009 issue. The issue's focus is electronics, and there was a small section on extended warranties in the ""Best electronics"" article. Here's what they said: Extended warranties still aren't worth buying Seven in 10 respondents to our survey on buying major electronics reported they were pitched an extended warrranty. However hard they're sold, extended warranties are generally bad investments. Most electronics products won't need a repair, especially if you choose brands that have fared better than others in the reliability ratings we include in this section. In the unlikely event they break, other Consumer Reports survey data has shown, the average repair bill is often comparable with the cost of a warranty. However, buying a plan that includes accidental damage might be worth considering for a laptop or netbook that you'll use a lot on the go. And buying a computer warranty that extends tech support, too, might make sense if you or a gift recipient could use a lot of hand-holding. [..] Paying with your credit card might automatically double the manufacturers' warranty and offer other benefits at no extra cost [..] Seven in 10 respondents to our survey on buying major electronics reported they were pitched an extended warrranty. However hard they're sold, extended warranties are generally bad investments. Most electronics products won't need a repair, especially if you choose brands that have fared better than others in the reliability ratings we include in this section. In the unlikely event they break, other Consumer Reports survey data has shown, the average repair bill is often comparable with the cost of a warranty. However, buying a plan that includes accidental damage might be worth considering for a laptop or netbook that you'll use a lot on the go. And buying a computer warranty that extends tech support, too, might make sense if you or a gift recipient could use a lot of hand-holding. [..] Paying with your credit card might automatically double the manufacturers' warranty and offer other benefits at no extra cost [..] BTW, I like Consumer Reports and I am a long-time subscriber. Check them out if you haven't before."