"At this point, I want to tell you two things: 1. I truly believe that you are very concerned about racial hate and damage to society. You truly want Germany to help those in serious need. You are a fine person! I have the same concerns and approach. 2. I am a Jew, with many original family members in Germany now (almost all my family ran away from Germany and Czech Republic before WWII, few got hurt, and after WWII, some returned back, and to Germany). So all this argument I have with you is not so much about Germans, who some of them risked their lives to save few members of my family. Yes, Germans almost died to saved some of my family. It's about a concern for a misguided policy in Germany to allow AGAIN the rise of intolerance and racial problems, of which, for sure, Jews will be the victims again, but mostly other minorities, but not (!) Muslims. If you did not know, the word ""anti-semitism"" was invented by Germans, and it is supposed to be against the semite race. European Jews are hardly semite but all Muslims and Arabs are pure true semites. Yet, Hitler and Muslims worked together and collaborated against Jews. Muslims were not killed by Germany. (If you did not know, yes, all Jews were semites, but 2000 years in Europe, after expelled from ancient Israel 2000 years ago by the Romans, made the Jews in Europe hardly semite. Meanwhile, most Jews (60%) in Israel are not of European descent as they ended up in northern Africa and Asia and ALL(!) of them expelled from the Arabs/Muslim countries when Israel was established in 1948. Do you know that Hitler sent the Jews of Libya and other north Africa Arab/Muslim countries to concentration camps? But not any Libyans or other Arab/Muslims?) SO, ALLOW me go the other direction with you now: do migrants get fined, houses raided and sent to jail over racist and intolerant sayings and actions? How about their religious leaders? Sheikh Abu Bilal Ismail, speaking at the Al Nur mosque in Berlin, called upon Allah to “destroy the Zionist Jews”. And nothing was done to him by the German government. However, an old German lady was fined and her house was raided. Think about it. This will not end good with Germany!! Think it's early 1930 in Germany. Nobody could predict what happened 10 years later. **I highly(!) respect Germans as they have very high and good standards in every respect. Something to admire! But, because of that, shown many times in the past, not only the 1930s, Germany is the last country that should be experimented in regards to racial tensions and rising problems (crime, intolerance, fanatic religious people, etc).** Crime by migrants in Germany is up considerably, [Read here](https://counterjihadreport.com/2016/02/page/8/) Read about Sheikh Abu Bilal Ismail in Germany [here](http://forward.com/news/world/202751/germany-warns-against-hate-speech-after-imam-calls/)"