"In response: 1 - So every disease that isn't glamorous enough to generate independent financing for research isn't going to get cured. Gotcha. More people die of colon and rectal cancer per year than breast cancer, but you'll never see a ""Save the poopers"" walk, because that shit doesn't sell yogurt. Most ""awareness"" fundraisers don't do anything (or do comparatively little) for research. They're more about supporting survivors. Yet, the CDC is one of, if not the most successful federally-funded program ever. It's wiped two diseases off the face of the earth. No bake sale is going to do that. Public health is a market failure - and the CDC has managed to give away 80% of its funding to third-party research and programming in such a way that it has accomplished goals including eradication of disease. 2 - First, [comptrollers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comptroller) are financial reporting and accounting oversight managers. The guys who wear headsets are aircraft controllers. So which airline will have the flight controllers? Will every small operation have to have its own controller in every tower at every airport it lands at? Or will the airlines large enough to have controllers simply charge everyone else to use theirs? Even more interesting, without oversight, what's to stop misinformation being fed between controllers with different carriers, for the profit of individual companies? The FAA also inspects aircraft during manufacturing and maintenance. If everyone who builds an aircraft is responsible for funding that themselves, or getting some third-party certification (yet another government organization must be created, or somehow exist profitably by magic), that's going to kill the world of experimental aircraft outside of the big three. 3 - You really didn't google anything before you got into this. No, the police don't enforce FCC regulations; that all falls under the FCC's jurisdiction and they only rely on locals for backup security during raids, which are rare. Leaving it to civil suits means anyone with the largest pockets gets to broadcast the loudest. Leaving it to the locals means training local police to fox hunt. Minor disputes over frequencies? That's plainly naive; nearly everyone with a transmitter has more wattage available than they're legally permitted to use. Broadcast wattage increases are delicately negotiated, petitioned, debated and re-petitioned, and then turned up. Elimination of regulation wouldn't even be settled at the town level - you're talking inter-county and interstate disputes. I personally broadcasted at a station that was greenlighted to 15,000W and we were heard in the tristate area and *Canada* - good luck coming to international accord on broadcasting standards without a federal body to speak for your industry. I'm not even addressing your last paragraph. It's just straw-manning and caricaturization."