"> Everything that President Trump promised you is going to happen. Absolutely not! Never ever, any president, or politician, fulfill all or most of they promised. I am still waiting for the Wall with Mexico, but I am sure it will not be done. It's a good idea which I support. I also doubt that the revised Health Care plan will be ""affordable"" and covering everything. It was not under Obama, despite him calling it ""affordable"" and it will not be under Trump, albeit Trump will make it much better. This, I am sure. >> I even asks for specifics [about Global Warming causing ""instability"" and ""expenses""] and you did not (and cannot) name any! > Oh, you got me. It can't be real if I don't have specifics. Yes, I got you! Absolutely. If there's not even a ""maybe"" for a possible specific ""instability"" or ""expense"", then it's not real. If you don't get it, I will explain with an example. If I say ""AI and Robots will take most jobs from people"" and I can't come with a specific, you will not accept that statement, am I right. Well, I actually claim that AI and Robots will take most jobs from people!! SPECIFICALLY, all driving, cleaning, cooking, maintenance, taking care of patients and sick, etc can be done by Robots. Managing and coordinating work, identifying and and evaluating situations currently done by doctors, experts and advisors can be done by AI machines. Do you now accept my statement, prediction? Now, you try it: give me a specific ""instability"" or ""expense"" that Global Warming may cause. Just try.. >> Hunger will not occur because warmer weather and more rain is just even more food. > We're going to have farming in Phoenix! Yes. But not so much because of the much more rain that will start falling in Phoenix. It will still not be enough. Do you know where 20% of lattice in my state, NJ, the Garden State, comes from? I'll tell you: it's from one large former warehouse in the city of Newark where lattice grows on moving conveyer belts immersed in water where fish swim and the food they get turns into poop that the plants eat. This operation, which will become the standard worldwide, reduce the damage to the environment and global warming in an unimaginable way. > Yes, it is the Russians who are hacking his teleprompters and Twitter feed. LOL! This sound exactly as desperate attempt to be ""funny"" by someone proven to be wrong on the subject. **I asked you before, and I notice you did not reply: Is Trump a Nazi or alt-Right sympathizer? What ACTIONS by Trump you do not like?**"