The legal system can be unfair sometimes but honestly these people brought this on themselves. The author glosses over the most important part of the post: they sent a letter threatening a dilution claim before the insurance company sued, which is probably what prompted the suit in the first place. These idiots were pissed about phone calls so they responded by threatening a dilution suit, which if successful could be very expensive for the insurance company. The insurance company reacted very rationally by filing a claim preemptively in order to establish jurisdiction in Florida, so that they wouldn't have to go to New Hampshire to defend themselves. That's the advantage of filing first. Every other problem the sole proprietor has been having has stemmed from not retaining counsel after being sued. Navigating the technicalities of a trademark suit is not for the uninitiated. Which is why you don't threaten a suit before retaining counsel or being prepared to file suit first. These jackasses made a very serious legal threat against a legally sophisticated company and are now being hung by their own petard. Edit: Excuse my silly hoist/hung confusion, I was typing quickly late at night after a few glasses of wine. But I wanted to point out a few other holes in this person's story. This case is in federal court in the Southern District of Florida. The electronic filing system that the article refers to is CM/ECF, which is used by most if not all US federal district courts. Any lawyer admitted to the federal bar in NH should be able to handle it, even if the case is in Florida as procedural rules are uniform across jurisdictions (see the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure). Even without an attorney, it is easy to get case access accounts to the system so a non-lawyer can track summonses and motions in their case. It is also quite easy to get a qualified patent attorney from outside the S.D. Fla. admitted pro hac, which means for this particular case only. It would be a very simple matter for an attorney in NH to get admitted pro hac merely for the purposes of filing a forum non conveniens defense or change of venue motion. Given the disparity in sophistication and resources between the parties, a hardship defense would likely be successful in challenging the venue. And then there's the matter of personal jurisdiction. Unless the defendant has conducted business in Florida, the court's jurisdiction can be challenged. All of this explains why you need a lawyer.