Sounds a lot like my old boss. Except, I couldn't even get a PM methodology in place that numbered and tracked projects. Boss: Just email me weekly status reports of what you're working on. Me: How am I supposed to know what I am working on? Boss: .. --- Me: I came up with a PM system to track all of our work. Here's the link. Boss: I like this, I have some notes of things I'd like changed. 6 months later Boss: Where is your weekly status report? Me: When are you going to send me those notes? --- Boss: Send me an inventory of all of our systems and servers. Me: I can put it in a centralized, web-based system where we you can get real-time reports and export them to Excel. Boss: We'll do that later. 6 Months later Boss: Can you email me an updated version of the systems and servers inventory? Me: Where is it? Boss: You sent it to me. Me: So in email? Boss: I guess. Me:I can put it in a centralized, web-based system where we you can get real-time reports and export them to Excel. Boss: We'll do that later. --- Boss: This employee of yours is a real problem. Me: I agree, we've had many conversations about this. I've spoken to her several times, she's been written up. I think it's time to fire her. Boss: Let's wait till after the holidays I'm going on vacation then you are. Me: I think we need to move quickly. Boss: Let's wait Right after holidays employee falls, injures hip on the job. Takes 9 months off of work. Turns out it was a preexisting condition but HR tells us we have to take her back despite the act that she lied on her application. --- Went on short paternity leave. Boss was supposed to okay my employees time cards in the system in my absence. Same employee as above. Boss: So you're employee didn't get paid because her time card wasn't approved. Me: I was on leave, I was clear I couldn't okay it while I was out and my system back up was supposed to okay it. Boss: Who is your system back up? Me: According to HR, you. Boss: Oh, well you need to own this problem. Me:.. --- Me: So we just need to develop use cases for the system. Boss and his Boss: Don't use technical jargon. Me:..