">It's sad..when I hear young workers talk about their job application strategies, more often than not they involve figuring out how to ""fool"" the HR bots. LOL. It took me a second with your ""HR bots"" to realize you were talking about the software and not the HR personnel. Because I have always (even 30 years back) viewed HR as basically operating on a lot of faulty fundamental assumptions -- the BEST way to get hired (even back then, BEFORE the ""software application screening process"") was to do an ""end run around HR"". Part of the reason is that HR (or previously the ""Personnel Dept"") was really designed from the get-go only to fill the generic ""factory worker"" positions -- jobs that had minimal base-level skill requirements (i.e. the checkbox type stuff where any relatively intelligent person should be able to determine with a pretty high accuracy whether the candidates could do the job) -- in other words the open positions that were effectively ""commodities"", and where the turnover was high and/or the number of people employed fairly large. *But then..* a combination of HR wanting to be more ""professional"" combined with the advent of the ""generic MBA manager"" (who believes he/she can manage ""anything"" without specific domain knowledge or experience) created an opening for HR to take over the hiring of virtually ALL positions. So what we ended up with was the generic MBA manager (lacking domain knowledge/experience) shifting the responsibility (or at least most of it) for candidate filtering & hiring off to generic HR people/processes (who pretty much by definition, lack domain knowledge/experience) -- and who then attempted to ""systematize"" the whole thing. Add in stuff like equal opportunity ""anti-discrimination"" laws (and lawsuits) to drive the ""generic-ization"" of the whole process.. and you have the perfect pre-conditions for the storm that is the current fiasco. So we end up with generic (and lets face it, often ignorant) managers taking ""job requirements"" and coming up with checklist style ""help wanted ads"" (CS Degree, 5-10 years of Ruby on Rails work experience, etc)-- HR departments that are clueless about the validity/availability of those requirements pretty much just keying the crap into the ads & application filtering software in a rote fashion -- and like a badly constructed Google search, it shouldn't be surprising that they come up with minimal ""results"". Of course within the ""discarded"" applicants are probably several potentially *excellent* hires -- but they will simply never be found. --- So.. SMART people will (still? again?) do their best -- not to ""game"" the bots -- but to do an ""end run around"" the whole thing. And that means using your ""network"" to get your name in the door and your resume in the hands of the ""person that matters"" within the company (that may or just as often may NOT be the manager who makes the ""hiring decision"" -- it may very well be the most experienced person in his department; who then PUSHES the manager to interview and hire you) -- and you preferably do that BEFORE the damned ad is even written, and BEFORE the HR department is even aware that there is a ""need"" for a hire. (Keep in mind that there is often a span of several weeks, if not several months between the REAL awareness of a ""need"" and the manager/HR getting around to actually starting the ""help wanted"" fiasco-ridden process.) One key aspect of that is that -- via the ""in the door ahead of time"" -- even IF the company *requires* the HR process to be followed, the job spec can be ""constructed"" to match the pre-qualified candidate, and his/her resume can go to the top of the stack (already being in the manager's hands with a hearty recommendation/endorsement from one of his critical team members: i.e. ""HIRE this guy/gal!"") Unfortunately, it seems that -- for all the emphasis on ""networking"" these days -- colleges and other ""how to get hired"" classes, seldom (if ever) teach those techniques. *But if you ask around/look around within companies and identify the really ""good fit"" people, a LOT of them will have been hired by this method, and emphatically were NOT found via HR listings & processes.*"