>Fortunately I've never had to ask these questions (facebook is a beautiful thing). From a entrepreneur to a employer, you're asking for a lawsuit (I'd say a couple of lawsuits) and I highly recommend that you stop this practice before you get in hot water. Here's why: First: * Facebook terms of use makes it a violation for anyone to ask users for their facebook password. So Facebook can sue employers for requesting said password due to the employer violating the terms. All the user would have to do is contact Facebook's legal department that you asked for their password. Second: * There is often information provided in Facebook profiles that you can not ask a perspective employee during the hiring process mandated by Federal law. Facebook records locations of where the user has logged into their account. So all the job applicant would have to do is produce that evidence which is readily accessible via your Facebook profile for free. That information consist of the following: * Race * Sex * Orientation * Pregnancy * Religion * National origin * Disability (physical or mental, including HIV status) * Age (for workers over 40) * Military service or affiliation * Anticipated deployment with the Reserves or National Guard * Bankruptcy or bad debts * Genetic information * Citizenship status (for citizens, permanent residents, temporary residents, refugees, and asylees) If someone is not hired after an employer has accessed this information via use of the job applicant's Facebook account, the employer is opening themselves up to an accusation/lawsuit that something in the Facebook profile was used as the basis of a decision not to hire. As an employer: How do you prove to the court/judge that you DIDN'T use the applicant's information on Facebook for making your hiring choice? Do you as an employer really want to be put into this position? You'd have to be crazy or not mind lawsuits if you say yes. So it's just better for both the employer and the applicant for the employer to not ask for the password. TL;DR - As a employer, don't ask for a Facebook user's password unless you like lawsuits.