">My article on businessweek.com was headlined, “American Families Are Poorer Than in 1989.” (It shouldn’t have said “are,” by the way, because the data only went through 2010.) The guy deserves some kudos for stating the above (the rare bare honestly about the ""are"" being inappropriate\*). And really he deserves kudos for the entire clarifying article (even if the conclusion is a vague ""we don't know"" -- which is also a rarely honest statement. And of course the term ""richer"" (or ""wealthier"") is a relative one, subject to a variety of interpretations. Back in 1962 someone may have *felt* extremely wealthy if they owned the only ""air conditioner"" on the block; but are they then more wealthy or less wealthy now when they have central air.. but so does everyone else. Or per example, the ""jokes"" in the Wall Street 2 sequel -- one of the things that made the Gordon Gekko of the original movie ""wealthy"" was his cell phone, because it was an expensive and rare luxury -- but today of course his original cell phone is a useless and clunky ""brick""; and meanwhile just about everyone else (including the ""riff raff"") owns smart-phones with internet access (something the old Gordon Gekko couldn't have even *dreamed* of owning, no matter how much money he had). So ""wealth"" is a difficult thing to nail down. --- \* Soapbox: It's a rare exception to the one thing that never ceases to piss me off -- when people make ""expert"" statements in the present tense, based on data that (of necessity) is not, indeed cannot be strictly ""current"". (For example, when some loudmouth ""scientist"" states that the Earth IS warming.. when of course that cannot be known as the statement is concerning a ""trend"" and is entirely based on NON-real-time aggregates; the best an *honest* scientist would say is that ""based on the past x years of data we know the Earth *has been* warming"".. not ""is""; the current status is never certain since the previous trend may have already ""peaked"" -- absent a real-time data stream, one cannot know.)"