"> Lol ok buddy. You googled some hysterical left wing editorials and I'm suppose to buy it as Trump being ""anti-science?"" They did that same shit with Bush and Reagan, and they'll do it to the next Republican president. I am a scientist and *every scientist I know* recognizes it: Republicans, Dems, and even the few Trump supporters. It's not left wing editorials, it's not just MSM, .. it's literally every science oriented magazine. I gave links to ""Science"" .. which *is the magazine for general scientists.* >> ""inversely proportional"" > Wow pedantic, boy if nothing is evidence of having won an argument it's when dudes start griping over definitions. Inversely proportional works just fine here. Not pedantic, accurate. As scientists tend to be when there is an underlying equation/relationship. There's a world of difference between y = -C x + k and y = C 1/x + k for positive C. If you can't distinguish these .. then I'm glad you're not a scientist. If you can recognize that these are considerably different, then I would suggest you have a problem admitting that you screwed up. >> ""won on income"" is just poor phraseology. > Nah, it was fine. You got it. No. I don't think anyone is asserting causality .. and ""won on income"" asserts causality. For example, the same exit polls show race was significant. Would you call it good phraseology to say ""won due to racism""? Also, you'll note that I also didn't assert causality with regard to the ""amount of education"" statistic. I *do* have some hypotheses in this regard, but I don't have the appropriate data to test it. [Aside: And before you jump to conclusions, my number one hypothesis doesn't have to do with ""intelligence"" .. it has to do with ""critical thinking skills"" as well as not viewing problems as simple ""black and white propositions."" ] > Aww now you are just trying to hurt my feelings. It's almost as if ad hominem attack is the last recourse of a defeated liberal. I believe it's acceptable to take whatever grammatical liberties necessarily when writing mocking prose. I'm glad to see you can use good grammar when you try. But, seriously, I couldn't make heads or tails of your last ""paragraph"" and was more than disheartened to note that each of your previous paragraphs in that post included sentence fragments, missing articles, and such. If you're trying to *communicate* .. be clear about it. If you don't I just won't take it seriously."