"Ugh, sorry. Drunkenness + finance geekery is pretty unconducive to actual information-sharing. Taxi medallions/licenses are heavily financed using debt--principally in the form of commercial loans. The structure of these loans is usually interest-only, 3 year balloon, with borrowers qualified on a 40 year amortization period. Sound familiar? I'll give you a hint: rhymes with smeal shmestate shmubble. The loans then get chopped up and hawked to local community lenders, who are told that the prices never go down (because supply-side monopoly), and then they happily up the concentration of taxi financing in their lending portfolios. Your observation is trenchant. Uber, Lyft, Sidecar, all that shit comes into the picture and there's no hail. So they're not really taxis, meaning they skirt regulation. And to make matters worse, they are also heavily financed through VC, PE, short-term bank debt. And they use that financing to do what? Not operations--instead, they just lower their prices, and usually below that of traditional cabs. It's an artificially deflated price designed to hook folks on the service, and then when they start not being able to subsidize their prices anymore, they'll raise em back up (but consumers don't care about that in the short run). Why does any of this matter? Because when the e-collective cited above comes in and creates stiff competition, demand for medallion falls because cab drivers would rather go work for Uber (they don't need to license their right to drive from a cab fleet anymore), and also demand for cabs themselves falls because people would rather take the cheaper alternative. That causes the cost of medallions to fall, which = price correction. And that's bad because it's not the guys originating and hawking these loans who are on the hook--they've effectively sold off their share of the loan to other lenders (community banks) and cashed out. Instead, you're looking at mom and pop banks who are now on the hook for these loans where the value of the loan grossly exceeds the value of the collateral, the medallion, the thing they were supposed to partially finance. This is the same phenomenon as what happened in 08. Real estate prices experience a substantial price correction because of, well, a bunch of shit, but let's just say that it had to do with the financing arrangements that made real estate safe in the first place + shitty loan underwriting standards. All of a sudden you had people with 500K houses that they took out a 1.2m mortgage for. Rational actors, true to their word, just walked away from the house--just packed up their shit and moved somewhere else, and just said to the bank ""here's the keys, I can't afford this shit"". And the bank can't take any of their stuff because the mortgage terms were essentially for the value of the collateral. So now you have all these banks that are short on liquid assets--they have residential properties, but nobody's buying, at least not at the prices that they need to get the return on their investment. This is all a really long way of saying this: if there is a mass price correction caused by Uber, it's going to be mom and pop banks on the hook for the loans. Borrowers will flee en masse to Uber et al, while banks will experience serious liquidity issues. You're right that Uber is doing something great by forcing taxi cabs into a non-monopolistic situation, but the first step needs to be unwinding the debt on these loans. Otherwise, you're looking at a mini market crash that could be disastrous for grandma and grandpa in Mendocino County. They're not going and banking at Citi or JPMC; they're banking at shitty little mom and pop banks that have no idea what they're being sold."