"We need to know more about the type of institution (e.g. bank, institutional investor, rating agency) specific role you're applying for. All these institutions have roles that do not require strong expertise in finance (and ""finance"" is a very wide area with tons of niches to specialise in). In general I second your understanding and the commenters here in that you should get a grip on basic areas and concepts, and I also agree that CFA level 1 is an excellent resource. Maybe you don't need to plow through every concept in detail but it gives you a general outline of the topics that are considered basic knowledge. Another word of advice when you got the finance basics down: play your strengths. If it is a pure finance role, HR has seen tons and tons of pure finance educated financial professionals. If you have a background in strong quantitative or hard sciences like math, physics, etc. that can be a plus. Do you speak three or more languages? Do you have leadership experience? Think about your strengths that you can bring to the table that may be relevant and other pure-play financial professionals probably don't have. Just anecdotally, I am currently browsing through CVs for an opening in my team (I work at a credit rating agency) and I see the same profile tons of times (masters in finance or MBAs) whereas yesterday I flagged a guy for interviews because he has an academic background in engineering in addition to his credit experience from previous jobs. Edit regarding your question on how to seem smart: brevity is the soul of wit. Of course it depends on your style but for most people I found this to be true: 1. we tend to talk too much before making the point. Try to make your point as fast and clear as possible, and either THEN back up your statement or even better, let them ask you. 2. Be confident in what you know and don't pretend you know something that you do not. Because they will know. It's ok to not know certain things, but you've got to own it. Don't self depreciate yourself by letting them find that out by catching you talking about stuff you don't know anything about. In the worst case if you are blank on key topics, it saves yourself and them time and you move on."