It's not that simple. Where I live, McDonald's charges $6.19 for a Big Mac combo. The local In-N-Out charges $6.59 for a Double-Double combo. They're pretty damned close in price and I don't think anyone would price discriminate over 40¢. The difference between the two is enormous. In-N-Out makes a great product, the burger and fries are delicious and fresh. Further, In-N-Out is known for treating - and paying - their employees well. They promote from within and becoming a manager is a good job. Thanks to the decent pay, In-N-Out employees tend to be very good and care about the customers. McDonald's is very different. The food is terrible. Flavorless and bland and *very* expensive for what you get. In-N-Out aside, I can go to a local mom'n'pop and get a good meal for under $6. There is no reason for me to go to McDonald's, none. McDonald's isn't such a great employer, either. The employees don't care. I've never been treated badly, but there's no enthusiasm. They are there for the paycheck only. I blame accountants and the business structure. For the record, I am an accountant, so I know what they're up to. McDonald's is a large, public company bent on returning maximum profits to shareholders. So they bring in the cost accountants who are very good at shaving costs down to the absolute minimum. The Big Mac has suffered death by a thousand cuts. No one cut makes it a lousy product, but give the cost accountants enough time and they will make anything mediocre to bad in lots of different ways. In-N-Out is a privately held company. Obviously, they are more interested in making money through selling a quality product and expanding sales. They don't have to worry about shareholders who don't give a fuck and just want short-term profits. They could make more money by turning the cost accountants loose, but they also know that would hurt their business. The difference shows. McDonald's is rarely busy here. At In-N-Out, lines are usually out the door and you can't find an open table. I only go there late at night on weekdays, since that's the only time it isn't slammed. So you have two companies selling a similar product at almost the same price. One is wildly successful and slowly expanding. The other sells a shitty product and thinks that marketing is the problem.