"> Lol. Americas are two continents. How many times do I have to educate you? No, you said America is continents. You are just being weirdly semantic and also failing to distinguish between North and South America. They are not both collectively called America. Nobody groups 2 continents together like that. It's like trying to group Europe and Africa together. There is nobody who says this. You cannot ""educate"" me on this because literally zero people aside from you think this way. >Beside that you still have not presented any data. All your points have been invalidated and best you can do is change topics over and over. What data would you like? America being increasingly protectionist and the stock market being at an all time high? https://www.cnbc.com/2017/07/26/us-stocks-boeing-earnings-fed.html I already used your own data against you so in a way that is me using data and you've presented none. >Still could not address my points about Argentina, Canada, US and etc. What point? I said Canada was protectionist and Canada is in the top to protectionist countries in the list *you provided.* We have a heavy investment in our own companies, a lot of my tax dollars go to that in fact. Canada is one of the most protectionist countries on the planet. Against my wishes, by the way, but it is the way it is. >Btw love your fake data and facts. I guess that's how you get cucked so hard to begin with Cucked? By what? My own facts? What? You sound retarded right now. >LOL. Chart says tarrif of 10 big countries. Not 10 highest Tarrif. LOLOLOL. Okay so provide a graph that shows the 10 highest tariffs. You know what this weird edit of yours tells me? **YOU DID NOT EVEN LOOK AT YOUR OWN LINK WHEN YOU SENT IT.** You are just reading it now. So which one is it? Either the graph proves me right or it proves nothing at all. Either way, you fucked up. This is really, really funny. >Best to stay in your safe space and keep getting cucked. Ugh, you don't see how embarrassing you sound, do you? Why would someone be cucked in a safe space? Are you saying *this* is a safe space? This sub is very clearly anti-Trump. You don't know what these words or phrases mean. >I wasn't being homophobic. I called you for what you are. That's your choice. No shame. Keep doing what you do and be Putins holster Why do you think about cocksucking so much?"