">It seems that the corporation was ordered to pay, no? The man does not claim he can't pay it, he claims the corporate entity that is supposed to pay it can't pay it. Exactly. Robert K (Rich Dad) established a company called Rich Global LLC. Which was sued by his partners in that company for failure to pay their agreed upon percentage of income. [From this article](http://abcnews.go.com/Business/rich-dad-poor-dad-author-files-bankruptcy/story?id=17463158#.UHhXSG_A_6M): The company had been weighed down by a lawsuit filed by Learning Annex, one of Kiyosaki's earliest backers who had helped arrange his public speaking events earlier on, Forbes reported. Bill Zanker, the founder and president of Learning Annex, sued Kiyosaki after he allegedly failed to pay a percentage of profits from his speaking engagements. A district judge in New York awarded Learning Annex $23.7 million. ""I took Kiyosaki's brand and made it bigger,"" Zanker told the New York Post. ""The deal was I would get a percentage, and he reneged. We had a signed letter of intent. The Learning Annex is his greatest promoter. We put his 'Rich Dad' brand on a stage. We truly prepared him for great fame and riches. But when it was time for him to pay up, he said 'no.' "" Robert Kiyosaki, author of the book, ""Rich Dad, Poor Dad"" filed for corporate bankruptcy through one of his companies, Rich Global LLC. A few years ago Robert K started another company called Rich Dad Co. He shifted all sales from books, seminars videos etc from his first company to the new company. It seems this was a fantastic stroke of lucky timing - or he purposefully did this while talks were souring between him and his former business partners. The former company is a shell with very little assets. That's pretty convenient. >This man probably runs several businesses. Yes he does - I have provided examples of this in my previous posts. >there is a chance some may go under. Go under? His book sales are not diminishing, he still does sell out seminars, he is paid for public speaking. This isn't about a company that failed to become successful. >If you don't want to invest with someone who doesn't have skin in the game, all you have to do is don't invest. Are you even aware of who is partners are / did you even read any of the information I have provided to you? His partners were the people who made him famous. They backed him and propelled him to the level he is currently at. They are asking for their fair share of what they created - and a court of law agrees with them. Robert K screwed them. Example: I am a low level motivational speaker. You are a promoter and believe in my message. You and I go into business. My job is to continue to write books, speak and create videos - you back me financially and create a PR and marketing campaign to propel me to a higher level of public awareness. You do your job and make me famous. When it comes time to pay you - I reorganize the company and screw you. I really can't continue this conversation. I have provided plenty of information, supporting links and examples. It is clear that you are unwilling or just unable to concede (at ANY LEVEL) that it is even possible that someone would/could manipulate BK laws to avoid liability. This discussion is turning into the equivalent of someone trying to describe the color red to a blind person. No matter what I present to you - you just can't see red. You are obviously entitled to your opinion and just for the record I have not downvoted a single one of your posts - however, due to your instance and firmly held belief that this type of business practice is ""smart business"" I restate that (in my opinion) you are part of the problem. *edit: Yet more fat fingered spelling mistakes.. my typing skills need improvement"