"None taken. Good thoughts: it would be making the same mistake to blindly accept my criticism as many will make blindly accepting this journalist's graphs. Let's see if I can address your concerns. The reason the scale is problematic to me is exactly what you said > I hope people would be looking at more than just a convex line And I don't think that they do. The scales were adjusted so that the lines were nearly identical on someone's computer screen, but that implies a false equivalency between the debts of households, corporations, state and local gov, and the fed. I think the author has left leaning sympathies (read the accompanied article that outlines ""who you will vote for"", link on the last slide). Not necessarily a bad thing, but he frames all of this from the idea that his *statistics cannot be skewed, and he is therefore presenting fact*. Central to the left's argument is that the Federal Government's size is not of the biggest concern, and if you got the average American thinking that 15 trillion is no big deal because households have a huge debt too, or corporations do too, or states do too, I believe that to be dangerous. I think I identified his bias, and that his graphs are slightly manipulated to coerce less discerning individuals to his side. Happens all the time, but all of those facts are dead on in regards to the data. Again, trying to keep my politics out of this, simply criticizing the graphs and the subtle message they are sending under the guise of being neutral. I would agree with your point *normally*: since contractors are temporary and often, as you pointed out, cost efficient from a benefits standpoint. They also tend to be more efficient, but this is not central to our point. The problem is that the government has the longest war in our history going, but we aren't really fighting anyone for the scale of our spending. Trillions of dollars have gone into this effort, and one of the results has been *the development of a quasi-economy in Iraq, and now Afghanistan*. The numbers are staggering of how many of these people are employed, or make a living, off of this war effort. But this is not like most contractors: where you would add them to the DOD's budget, as you astutely pointed out. And the difference, I would purport, is the permanent status of the ""employment"". After what length of time would you say a contractor for the DOD working on computer programs in the Pentagon is the equivalent of an employee (and therefore must be counted in statistics such as the one the graph in question purports to depict)? 2 years? 5 Years? Certainly after a decade, right? Remember, the graph is trying to show that the number of government employees *is not a problem, or at least not a significant one*. But calling an apple a banana doesn't make it yellow; I think political slight in hand with statistics as important as these should be criminal. Sorry I got long winded, but I hope I addressed your concerns. It sounds like you are one of the few people who thinks critically when presented with data such as that which is in these 64 slides. But remember: for every one of you there may be a thousand people who are brainwashed by any ""data"" you put in front of them."