"> Spoken like one who's soul has already been sold. Soul has been sold? It's comical how exaggeratedly apocalyptic your conspiracy theories are just because I'm willing to admit that not everybody at Fox fits into your conspiracy theory. I don't even know what you're trying to say here anyways. Who are you implying bought my soul for what and why would my comment demonstrate that? > Real people know they're being lied to. Yes, and Fox news viewers include many real people.. which is why a portion of both viewers and presenters are indeed intelligent, well-meaning people looking for accurate reporting. There are plenty of intelligent and self-aware conservatives who are aware of media bias. Awareness of media bias is in large part why Fox viewers were so happy to have a conservative alternative. All media has bias and many people are more comfortable in the context of certain biases than others. The fact there are also presenters and viewers that don't fit this high integrity, high intelligence and/or high awareness description doesn't justify simplifying those who do out of the picture just to give your narrative a more pure sense of good and evil. It turns out that the real world is not so conveniently simple. There is bad in good. There is good in bad. You're enemy may do good things or work with good people. Your ally may do bad things or work with bad people. All people, parties, governments and businesses have competing interests some of which likely clash with yours and some of which probably align with yours. The real world is complex. > Some people don't understand the extent to which they are being manipulated. This is why MY comment suggest that SOME people are one way and SOME people are another way. There is a big jump between this claim (a ""some"" statement) and your more extreme suggestions (""all of them"" / ""none of them"" statements). By disagreeing with my comment, you were making a jump to the latter which is not supported by a statement like this and requires stereotyping the world into an unrealistic black and white."