">> Ok!! Please find me something significant that Trump did that you don't like. > All right, another one of my pet issues is global warming. Wow! I asked you twice for significant issues that Trump did, and you don't like. First, you give this gray topic of Medicare Part-D where Trump promised to act upon, but has yet do anything. Am I right? Did Trump do anything against or for drug prices? Isn't trump trying to replace the healthcare act? Yes or no? **And now, given a second chance, you come up with ""Global Warming""?** Are you serious? Global Warming? It's Trump fault? Is Trump against solar panels and wind power? Do you have any idea why Trump called it Chinese Hoax? Because the Paris Accords, like the TPP, and like NAFTA, and the Iran Deal, etc, etc, etc, are scams to hurt the USA and make the USA pay more. Nothing else. Who has bigger air pollution, coal power plants, cutting trees, environmental disasters, etc? The USA or China? USA or 3rd world? So why does the USA has to do most of the cuts and costs? Global Warming is another form of tribalism and ""religion"" used to manipulate people. Since you are an expert with Global Warming, is it true that deserts are now becoming green? Most trees in the world, which are in Russia and not the Amazon, are green longer? Global warming happened before, many times in earth history before the industrial revolution? Also ice ages? Oceans did not rise? I am not worried about Global Warming. It has negative things, and positive things. My nieces is working on growing meat in labs for consumption by humans. It will be safer, cheaper, better, and more tasty. **Do you have any idea what will happen in the world, 20-30 years from now, when we stop raising cows, pigs, goats and sheep? Any idea how damaging is current agriculture to the climate? What would happen in the world in 20-30 years from now when robots plant trees everywhere?** No need for the hysterical and paranoia about ""Global Warming"" and the USA. You should be more worried about China and what this country and all its people do the earth."