">When I was a student, back in the early nineties, I had a holiday job at the frozen-food supermarket chain, Iceland. One morning, presumably fresh from a leadership course at Frosty HQ, our manager called all the staff together to admonish us for our apparent lack of enthusiasm for the sale of turkey nuggets. “Sometimes I feel that some of you are only in this for the money” she hissed. She was cut off by incredulous laughter. After all, what other motivation could there be for spending one’s weekend restocking a giant fridge freezer? This is ironically (ROTFLMAO) hilarious. After all what exactly is the underlying motivation of the ""company"" itself? The good of all little children of the world.. hence the dispensing of ""turkey nuggets"" for FREE? Oh wait, the goal is to make money. Herp Derp. --- >Innocuous as this may sound, it’s a cultural shift that poisonously favours the employer over the worker. For as long as companies are able to offer their staff these intangible psychological carrots, they are able to get away with not paying them in full for the work they do. > >[..] > >For companies, it’s a perfect ruse. Like faith healers, the more evangelical fervour they can fire up in their staff, the more they can squeeze out of them, and the less they ask in return. I heard this kind of BS (along with the Soviet-style ""banners"" and ""mission statements"" and ""5 year plans"") well over a decade ago. My response then to it -- (from a friend/CEO who was trying to ""entice"" me into working for his company, and tried this schtick because he'd recently been indoctrinated into the BS via Harvard's OPM/MBA program) -- was simple, I said ""Sorry guy, cut the BS, I'm basically prostituting my mind/skills/time & labor -- make me a better offer in terms of $$ or STFU."" He started to take umbrage at the ""prostitute"" concept, and I replied that I wasn't born yesterday, I knew that he had inherited the company, that he himself really didn't give a rats arse about making & selling the products that he did, and that the whole enterprise was (as essentially all enterprises are) ALL ABOUT making money -- so if he wanted me on his team, he would need to PAY. (And besides, his entire reason for wanting to hire me was that he KNEW I would be able to help make his operation significantly more efficient and therefore more profitable.) Sometimes you just need to clock these jackasses over the head with a baseball bat -- they get so caught-up and habituated in using the buzzwords and euphemisms that they delude themselves into thinking that they *really ARE* ""doing God's work"". (The irony is that those same ""delusions"" and buzzwords tend to make them easy marks for scamming ""con-men"" consultants; something that I have seen happen several times, often almost hilariously.) And I also see that this is the influence of ""creeping socialism"" -- as if there is something inherently ""wrong"" with making a profit and it has to be ""justified"" with something more noble -- which is total delusional *ballocks*. The only reason to plant a seed is to reap the harvest; and thus feed yourself (and incidentally, others, from whom you are entitled to expect something in return/exchange)."