FYI: David Knopf is a graduate of Princeton with a BA in Econ. His parents are rich. Like totally fucking rich. You might do better. If your parents make less than $140k, tuition at Princeton is zero. Of course your chance of getting into Princeton, unless you are a legacy admission, or ace the SAT, is about zero. Better bone up on Algebra if you want to ace the SAT. And yes, you ARE a math person. Everyone is. It's just that nobody ever taught you right. Forget about the CCNA or CCNP, that stuff will be obsolete before you would finish learning it. And even if you did, some H-1 visa immigrant will do the job for a quarter of what it would cost you to make a living. I completely sympathize with your situation. I'm not going to pour out my life story, but I always thought I'd be a multimillionaire by the time I was 30. Instead, I have made choices that took a troublesome path, including depression and poverty. Even today I am suffering from choices I made (or avoided making) decades ago. BUT I am suffering only by OTHER people's standards. I don't regret the choices I made. I turned down fast money I could have made by exploiting people, it would have only cost me my soul. I have been exploited by other people, and it taught me the value of dealing with people who have ethics like my own. So ultimately, you have to admit to yourself, you are exactly where you need to be. You are struggling because what you want to do is hard. I am an artist too, and that is just about the hardest thing to do on this earth. If it was easy, anyone could do it. So don't despair, get busy. I remember when I lived in a slum, barely subsisting, but I had a sunny window and a table, I spent $2 on a cheap brush and a tube of black watercolor, and a $2 tablet of cheap watercolor paper. And I sat at that sunny table and made art that made me happy. Nobody but me has ever seen it. And for all the changes I have gone through in decades since, I would give almost anything to be living in abject poverty, sitting at that sunny window with that cheap paintbrush in hand again. [So I'll just leave you with this odd comic by Carol Lay, it's one of my all time favorites.](http://i.imgur.com/4XsDbnE.gif)