Hi LY, It's really great you are doing this and I hope some of the suggestions help you. When I was in wonderful Angkor Wat a few things struck me as very helpful 1. Make your Tuk Tuk recognizable and write you name somewhere, this way when I go out of a temple you will be easy to spot 2. You seem to speak English well this is an important aspect your customers will really appreciate 3. From what I've seen the methods for getting customers for your Tuk Tuk in Siem Reap is as follows: Get them when they get off the bus and drive them to the hotel, then try to tell them to invite you back the next day for taking them to Angkor Wat. I am sure this works but since everybody are doing it I imagine it's the hardest way for customer acquisition. You can distinguish yourself from the other drivers by: a. Making sure you show the customers you have excellent English and you can share you knowledge with them b. Sell western style, kind of less pushy, smile at a potential customer when they see you they will smile back. Talk to them in your normal voice volume this will make them come closer since they want to hear what a nice smiling guy like is saying. Then explain their options for visiting the temples. 4. Make deals with hotels and hostels. People trust the receptionists at their hotel more than street Tuk Tuks. It is highly likely they will ask the reception for the best way to get to Angkor Wat and you should be the one they recommend. Try getting on as many lists as possible and high up that list as possible. 5. Having cold water, wet wipes and other commodities are nice ideas but I am not sure this will what get people IN your Tuk Tuk. It will only make them more satisfied once they are inside. It might be to hard and expensive to keep them ice cold but you can suggest travelers to stop at a kiosk where they can but some supplies before the trip. Or make a deal with a kiosk and before you exit Siem Reap stop there and give them a fresh water bottle from the fridge. Most importantly don't spend money on stuff like mufflers and curtains before you are sure they are money makers. I am pretty sure 99% of customers will not notice they extended mufflers. They take fresh air for granted. I hope you found this helpful and please feel free to message me. Hope to see you soon!