"Most of what other ppl are suggesting can be be filed under ""be a good employee"" which it sounds like you already kind of are as a waitress which is why he asked you to interview with him. Things that are maybe more specific to the finance world that can help you out would be more helpful for you. A huge thing I've seen that assistants can do that can be very helpful is to help their boss catch things they may otherwise be too busy to catch themselves. If you can save your boss an hour or two and get him the information he needs to make a more informed decision yourself you will find yourself an invaluable member of the team. Maybe you can suggest the following plan in the interview: - See if you can figure out what types of investments they make and what they specialize in (PM me if you want don't want to share the company name here and I can maybe help you figure that part out) - Set up Google Alerts for anything and everything that might be of interest to the firm. Maybe he invests in certain industry verticals and needs to follow all the trends in that industry very closely. Maybe he handles a specific customer and needs to know anything that might affect their positions in the market. You won't really know any of these details before you get the job but asking the right questions in the interview can show that you are taking an initiative. - Spend an hour or two in the morning (before markets open preferably) preparing a ""Things to Watch"" memo based on his meetings for the day, funds/companies he might be investing in, or general macrofinance trends that he will need to watch out for potentially. This should include things like earnings calls coming up, news announcements, changes in important market indicators, or new reports from market movers (like [Bridgewater's Daily Observations](https://www.bridgewater.com/research-library/daily-observations/)). The goal is to make it so he doesn't have to spend too much time researching these things himself but obviously if he wants to he will have to read up on it himself - you should just give him the ""big picture thesis"" of what's going on and he can take it from there. - Talk a lot about optimization. My personal goal for myself is to take everything I spend any amount of time on and automate it by one order of magnitude. If something takes me 2 days to do, it should only take me 2 hours. If something takes me 2 hours, it should only take me 2 minutes. That way my work gets easier over time and lets me focus on new things that I haven't figured out yet. If you talk about that in the interview I'm sure he'd love to have you help him make his life easier!"