"I would phrase it this way: if someone needs costly procedures, especially for conditions they caused themselves, then, yes, those procedures will not be covered, and they are not covered in all National Healthcare systems in the world. It's immoral to cover a liver transplant for a drunk or extended hospitalization for an obese person while an old lady cannot get an aid to stay independent in her home because it's not covered in the medical insurance. And I have no issue if the ACA will be repealed before a replacement is put in place. This will be the fastest way to get a replacement. It seems to me that you are not familiar with how National Health Care systems work, and so I will give you personal example, of my aunt, covered by the excellent national healthcare in Israel. And I mean it: it's one of the best National Health Care systems in the world. Her hips locked suddenly and she had to have a hip replacement. ""No problems!"" said the doctors: ""You will get hip replacement, totally covered by the insurance"". ""But, you have to wait 3 months for that."" So my aunt said ""But I got supplemental private medical insurance"" (every one smart in Israel who can afford it get that.) ""Why didn't you tell us?"" asked the doctors, ""you will have the hip replacement done next week, with better parts."" And so it happened. My aunt thought that, at least, the recovery and rehab in the hospital will be covered by her standard insurance. So, in the morning after the surgery, the nurse comes and says ""please make a choice: either I come once in the morning to take you out of bed to the toilet and some rehab, or, once in the evening"". My aunt chose none of the options, and paid out of her pocket (partially covered by her private insurance) to stay in a private hospital. Do you get it? But in Israel, an obese women will get her 3rd artificial insemination to have her 3rd baby + an aid to help her raise her kids because she's too fat to care of the her children. We have that nonsense in Israel."