"I think you are confusing ""understands technology"" with ""is technology guru"" or ""technology visionary"". > As I noted the whole timeline simply DOESN'T match up with reality (at all, no matter HOW desperately one contorts the timeline into trying to make it ""plausible""). Your timeline is flawed, as Sony's early work goes back well in to the 50's. > his son by having a patent attorney look at it, and then came back and told junior some cock & bull story about having been ""beaten"" to the patent. Maybe the whole thing is a lie. However, the story goes that the patent application was actually filed. > LOL. Go to any sizeable bar and talk to a number of people; ask them if they ever had an ""idea"" that was later patented and became a ""big time"" thing -- you'll end up with HUNDREDS of similar ""well I had this idea once for _____"" stories, and a lot of them will come from when they were teens or twenty-somethings.. very few of them have even a tiny kernel of ""truth"". Agreed. That's exactly why I'm saying having the idea isn't important. Like you said, he might have just been working off of some designs he read in a magazine. I don't look at his work with the CRT as a demonstration of any particular brilliance, just an interest and enough competence to actually get the damn thing to work, which already separates him from pretty much all non-tech CEO's, and even puts him in a reasonably rarefied cloud amongst CEO's or large tech companies. > As the Apple CEO, he was a ""fish out of water"" -- but, given that the advertising & PR people had already (once) done the ""let's dress up our CEO as a 'technical wunderkind visionary"" (with Jobs) -- they simply did their best to repeat the same thing (with even less basis in reality) with Sculley. You should read Jobs' own accounts of meeting and recruiting Sculley. They had very extensive conversations about technology and while Jobs no doubt didn't see him as a visionary, the computer industry was new to Sculley so he had a lot to learn (particularly the first year), and Sculley clearly didn't get Jobs' design esthetic, but Jobs very much felt he could share his vision and Sculley would understand it and its implications. Similar comments from Markkula and others who worked with the guy then. > And of course subsequently -- he's been coasting on (and trying to capitalize on) that bullshit ever since. > > He probably should have just gone back to the beverage & advertising world; but by then I think he had begun to believe his own PR myth, and his ego just wouldn't allow for admitting the truth. Ironically, I think the post-Apple track record shows quite the opposite. Sculley definitely sees himself not as a technical visionary or even a technologist, but as a master marketer. Yet the evidence is he hasn't done terribly well marketing most of the fairly interesting tech that he's found out there. So I'm not sure what your basis is for this narrative you've constructed."