"> Also twice before, with Haynsworth in 1969 and Carswell in 1970, a Democrat Senate rejected a Republican appointment so Bork was not unprecedented. Both of which were bipartisan votes. Thirteen out of 41 republicans voted against Carswell, and 17 out of 43 for Haysworth. > The last time a Republican Senate approved a Democrat appointment? 1895. Which would seem to suggest an imbalance, except that the GOP only controlled the Senate for a total of 8 years out of the 100 between 1895-1995 >Even if you're right about McConnell's opinion, then he should have brought the nomination to the floor and insured it failed as that would have been an equal violation of the spirit of the system. He went beyond that. This is a fair enough point.. I guess? But I can hardly fault him for not putting on the show of hearings.. he had the political capital to prevent the hearings, he would've been able to whip the votes to reject the nomination. I don't see how depriving us of the extended theatre made he actions any worse. If I know I'm not buyinggsomething, I don't engage the salesman in a conversation.. > >> The topic at hand is healthcare.. > >Agreed, and a bipartisan healthcare bill is not possible while the Republican party acts without integrity. And forcing them to prostrate themselves over the handful of highly publicized issues that the left is most offended by does nothing to restore their integrity. It would only serve to fire up their worst partisans with the ""indignity"" of it all. > > Today I see this as purposefully bringing a knife to a gunfight. Fights to the death are zero sum games. Figuring out a way to increase the prosperity of a country is not. >Think about the ACA. Republicans have made it an incredibly divisive issue despite the fact that the core is a Republican solution and most of the talking-point problems are either illusion on Republican caused. They absolutely did, > >> Deeper trenches just lead to a longer war. > >Bill Maher has a joke I like: ""The left has moved right and the right has moved into the loony bin."" > > Republicans now push mantras like ""Government is the problem, not the solution"", ""Freer markets lead to more opportunity"", ""You will get more money by letting the rich keep more of theirs"", and ""Immigrants and the poor are taking your job."" This narrative is toxic and is only emboldened with Democrat willingness to keep communication open. All this ignorance is perpetuated by the climate of us versus them that only gets worse every time you double down. The hotter the conflict, the easier it is for the shit heel idealogues on either side to fan the flames, and the less use government is to any of its citizens. > >Thanks for your well thought out reply, /u/BigKev47. And yours as well. I haven't been by /r/economy for a while, but this has been a far better discussion than I've had in months on the more ""neutral"" subs."