">Despite nothing dishonest about it. You are doing nothing but splitting hairs here, why is beyond me. You are generalizing because it helps your narrative. That's why. I am specifically explaining to you why Vice is more serious than what you're diminishing it to . >If that was the case you would been able to refute it, you yet to been able to do so. All you have done is make claims of my logic being faulty, which you have totally and utterly failed to show. I did refute it. I doubted the validity of your underlying premise by criticizing it as being fallacious (based on faulty reasoning). I cited the fallacy, which your argument is a quintessential example of. Without some sort of counter-argument that undermines the validity of my challenging argument, your argument is refuted. You're just denying it, and acting like a denial is as good as being logically sound. >lol what mistake? You act like you are this logical wiz, and yet I have successfully taking down your logic while you totally failed to destruct mine. All you are doing now argument wise is ""but but but but but"". You don't realize what Vice releases on their website is representative of all of their content. Claiming they have good content when their content is on the level of Buzzfeed is outright laughable to say the least. You claim your well verse in your media readings, but yet you continue to defend Vice as being quality content tooth and nail despite agreeing with me that the article was crap. I highly doubt you can link me an article you think is high quality from Vice. You made a sweeping generalization. You never refuted it; you denied it and ignored it and failed to address it. You cited a promo for an episode of a Viceland entertainment show as an investigative reporting story from Vice News (a sister channel), and now you're doubling down suggesting that a tv show promo is somehow representative of a separate entity's investigative reporting. That's like saying a promo for TBS's 1995 Captain Planet and the Planeteers is representative of CNN reporting. LAUGHING SO HARD AT YOU RIGHT NOW. [Challenge](https://news.vice.com/article/reports-suggest-body-cameras-are-only-effective-when-cops-cant-turn-them-off) [accepted](https://news.vice.com/article/the-uns-weirdest-crimes-380-pounds-of-weed-child-porn-and-a-chainsaw-on-a-plane) [and won.](https://news.vice.com/story/exclusive-snowden-tried-to-tell-nsa-about-his-concerns)"