"I think that history shows that it's rarely necessary for violence to lead to social reform. There's always been a tug of war between the upper class and the middle/lower classes. The term ""working class"" was a way to unify middle and lower classes against the wealthy ""idle class."" Unfortunately the wealthy were able to convince many white collar middle class people that they were ""upper middle class"" and that the ""upper middle class"" shares values and goals with the elite. If you look at the numbers this couldn't be more wrong. By any standard, I am a very fortunate person. I have a six figure income and some assets. However, the truly elite in the US enjoy household wealth and income that DWARF what I make. I pay a much higher percentage of my income to taxes than a person with inherited wealth does. Why is the system this way? It's effectively a barrier - no matter how hard we work or how well we do - we can't break through to the upper class. Instead of a meritocracy we have an aristocracy. This is the great lie at the center of American politics today. The aristocrats have the many of the best and brightest convinced that we're part of the club when we're really not and never can be. They've turned us against the blue collar workers and the poor, when we should all be together. They've convinced many that people like the current administration trying to create more upward mobility are anti-american, when it's really the aristocracy that violates democratic values of equality and fraternity. However - we can vote for leaders who might do better. We can peacefully assemble (think OWS). We can go on reddit and share our political and economic opinions. Because of these freedoms, we can safely say violence is a remote last resort. Nothing is inevitable. Economic growth is really just people finding ways to interact and deliver value to one another. And - ""fortune favors the bold."" I'll stay optimistic and keep making money as well as trying to help my community. I'll bet dollars to donuts change can and will happen just because enough people will get sick of the Romneys of the world hogging all the wealth and we'll find a political solution. tl;dr Martin Luther King. Ghandi. Tunisia. We'll work it out like men- with our words."