"It sounds like you really want to support Trump. I had a boss who said, ""people make decisions emotionally and justify then logically."" I get where you're coming from. He's on your side so you want to defend him. It probably doesn't make sense to give you any more facts if you're just going to find the flimsiest reason to dismiss them. I believe that the sky is blue, the grass is green, and Don Jr admitted to attempting to collude with the Russians, which is illegal. Maybe he actually succeeded, maybe he didn't, but there's no question that he tried. That's enough for an investigation, and based upon results could justify jail time. So I *really* don't like Trump. Let me take a moment to explain my emotions: * I think he's super dishonest * I think he's xenophobic. Immigrants are good people and contribute positively to society. Nearly everyone is an immigrant once you go back far enough. * I think he's a racist. It's ugly and good people should oppose this sort of hate. You learn this when you're little. * When he lies, the things he says are obviously inconsistent. It's insulting that he thinks we'd believe his stupid statements. * It saddens me that 38% of America still believes his stupid stuff. I don't know whether they're too simple to see his dishonesty, don't really care that he's dishonest, or are too disengaged to have noticed. I don't think our democracy lasts another generation in its current form. * I think he's corrupt, and is enriching himself and his family/allies with his office. He's the first president without a blind trust. * I think he does real damage to worthwhile endeavors (or tries to): renewable energy, global alliances, race relations, pollution controls, social safety net, civility, and others. * I'm disappointed that the Republicans haven't called him out. Politics and self-interest seems to outweigh integrity. Congress is the check on his power. * I think he's lazy and spends too much time on vacation. He's also dishonestly inconsistent for criticizing Obama for golfing too much, and then he golfs **more** once in office. * I'm torn about his incompetence on policy. I should probably be happy he's flailing around, unable to pass any significant law. I just hate to see the impotence."