"That's because the one guy in Portland who knows Thai food has gone down the rabbit hole and knows what Thai food is on a very deep level. He's friends with biggest Thai foodies on the planet. He knows far more about Thai fold than the average Thai person in Thailand. I haven't eaten at his restaurants, but I assume they're good..I also assume he has problems still due to ingredients and the palate of his customers. Everywhere else in America, including the rest of Portland, the people have trouble securing good ingredients or have forgotten what Thai food even tastes like (Thai Town). I took Thai friends to multiple places in Thai town--all the best reviewed ones..by Americans--and they were basically disgusted. Thai food is one of those types of food that can taste pretty good even when it's the lowest quality, most haphazardly formed dish on the market. In America, families tend to form restaurants where they serve a million different types of dishes, which becomes a logistical nightmare when there aren't good markets that have what you need. In Thailand, many of the best places specialize in very few dishes on an expert level. In Thailand, for every one place that specializes in something like beef noodles that is utterly amazing, there are ten beef noodles places that taste okay and a tourist is likely to assume whatever beef noodles they have is as good as it gets..unless they're lucky enough to stumble upon the mind blowing beef noodles. In America, most of the Thai restaurants serve a million different types of dishes. They all remind me of the restaurants you see in the more tourist heavy parts of Bangkok where there are a million pictures on the wall with the advertised prices and a ton of different dishes, none of which are exceptional. In Thailand, if a place is serving a lot of different dishes, most of those restaurants will be marginal. Or! they'll have a lot of different dishes from a specific region (E-San, for example) or serving a particular style of food which they are experts in (duck restaurants in Thailand often have a lot of other Chinese dishes that accompany the duck). That's hard to do. For every one of those in Thailand, all will taste decent, 1/10 will be mind blowing. In the US, you don't even have beef noodle places or duck rice places..you have ""Thai restaurants"" made by people who left Thailand long ago, only to return to eat at the same restaurants tourists walk into."