you are discounting the cash used, the discount rate for cash should be whatever you determine is your risk premium over the risk free rate not the equity growth rate. if equity growth rate is above your determined required return the equity investment is wealth destroying and if it is above that then it is wealth increasing. The difficulty I see is that the scenario is all wrong, what you are really after is a rent vs buy decision. Do I take this money and rent a place or do I buy a house? In either case you could invest the remainder after paying your rent/mortgage in the equity market no? So what really matters is the difference in cost between renting and buying. Let (EGR)=equity growth rate Rent = rent M = Mortgage payment I = income HA = home value appreciation Now the question is is renting or buying a better decision two scenarios, renting first PMT =(I - rent) I/y = (EGR) N =Time horizon in years FV= Gain from cf left after paying rent then discount to present day at your required rate of return to find present value now scenario for buying, this is more complicated because you are investing two different cf streams at different rates and have to calculate both and add them together. 1) CF 1 the mortgage payments buy you equity in the house which appreciates (hopefully) but can be extremely volatile. This is the cf stream scenario one doesnt have, when renting the rent payments poof disappear forever and you earn nothing on them 2) The income left after mortgage payment which can be invested at the market rate measured the same way as above. **This is extremely simplistic and doesnt take into account expected maintenance, property taxes and other costs intrinsic to the investment. It also doesnt take into account the lost down payment setting you well behind the renter. TL DR: It is complicated but you determine the required return(discount rate) based on the perceived risk of the investment and your particular views and it doesnt matter what expected growth rates are since any investment with an expected growth rate below your required rate is wealth destroying since you are paying for something which returns cash flows too small for its risk level. If you use growth rates as discount rates then all your investments will net to zero