">I don't know, they focus solely on debt as if it's the reason for the recession. Well, if you remember that personal debt is largely mortgages, and that the housing situation is what drove the bubble and collapse, it seems pretty reasonable. There are factors that attenuated it. Banks leveraging heavily off of investments that were ultimately backed by housing made the collapse worse. And you could say that the longer-term story, the thing that really drove unemployment changes that won't change quickly, is long-term shifts in the economy. China opening up to trade, automation reducing demand for people to perform simple tasks. The bubble collapse just exposed some of those, drove companies that were ultimately in trouble across the line. >At least they acknowledge that it would have to happen gradually, but they act like any and all debt is terrible. Well, it's not great, and people have been saying ""we should deal with our debt problem"" and not doing anything about it for a long time, because it's easier to just borrow from the next generation.. >Plus, you know, it's Business Insider asking us to put aside politics, which is pretty funny. Yes, the article was not apolitical. Another point..one reason that we're spending more on health care is because we've figured out ever-more-expensive ways to make people live longer. A person will almost always spend all the money required to extend their life. Once their resources are exhausted, a medical company has to go looking for someone else to foot the bill if they want to keep selling product. In this case, taxpayers are an option. Ditto for people living longer after retirement, and having a longer-and-longer Social-Security-funded vacation; Social Security was designed in a world where most people didn't *have* all that much ""retirement"". But remedying that has real implications, and it's worth being aware of those. You can send people back to work. They're increasingly fragile and maybe a bit senile. You can simply refuse to subsidize medical care as much, which will result in people dying earlier."