- What are you talking about? The rules are regulations are setup as needed. If you give a concrete e.g. maybe if you give a concrete example of where the govt is in the way I can understand. (rules and regulations are not examples of govt. in the way in itself. It would be if say you need to do something but you need to petition the govt. first for something and there's tons of bureaucracy or or something. Else, govt just set the rules such as Stop at Red Light etc. Govt is not in the way here. - The rest of your comments are on same line, so this one bullet is enough. Again, you're just accusing generally with no specifics. And I'm not naive. This is real and my opinion. Govt. sets new rules as needed as a response to something, not because people in the govt. who change every few years feel so. You're talking about changing people in govt. all adhering to the same laws because it makes sense to keep it and if not, it gets repealed. Govt. is not one same set of people always present from your birth to death. Govt. keeps changing. Govt. does care about fairness and HFT's existing is proof that govt. lets free market and private business start things as it pleases till such time as it stops being fair for all. - Govt. is not really an inhibitor to free market. Govt. actually has no impedance to free market because it allows a fair and balanced free market unlike what you're referring to which is a free market with no rules like the Wild Wild West. We had that free market before and over time people went from unregulated markets to more regulated markets because it is for our own good. Govt. is just people who agreed with it, joined the govt and made it so and others agreed. If we don't agree in future, it can be changed. - There is a term as regulated free market. Unregulated free market will lead to snakeoil salesmen and generally a backwards movement to the wild west again. I don't think you really want to talk. You just want to spew your ignorant libertarian viewpoints because you've heard them somewhere without thinking much about it. You just blindly believe the govt. is always wrong with no logic or justification, just like religious people. Just think on a few points and you will see that you are wrong sometimes. Is the govt. perfect? Heck no. Is it always right? Nope. But it is some times and it does do the right things many times. It does the wrong things at times as well. But I don't believe like you do at all because I think for myself and reason. If you reason on a few points, you'll see the other viewpoint. And stop reading Stossel or Ron Paul because they're not right about govt. being always wrong either. I won't bother replying to you anymore because you're just a troll or arrogant smug guy who thinks he knows it all because your friends all think like you and blindly agree with you. So you've never been taken to reason or logic like others have to you on this board. Look at the other replies to your posts - almost all contradict you. Just think why ? Are they all wrong or perhaps you are.