"I speak from personal experience. Even now, as I type this, I've had very sleep so, I'm on the edge a little, but you don't see me blogging about how ridiculous it is for me to stay up to learn something new, and I'm in my thirties where I've had to do this several year already. That being said, I don't enjoy the long hours, but I do enjoy the problem-solving process, which can be time consuming. I tend to lose track of time when I'm immersed in learning or figuring a problem. Given the fact that tech is ever evolving, no one should ever be surprised to find out that there are long hours involved. It's not busy work. It's part of the learning process. If I figure it out, then it goes on my blog on how I resolved the issue instead of bitching how some VC (that was smart enough to become one) is going to benefit from my time. I'm paid for the work. That is the path I chose to be in. With that in mind, I've worked for seven well known tech firm (most startups) so far. One was my own shop, which I ran for nearly six years. Nowhere did I hear anyone glorify the long hours. If I stayed after hours, I was asked if the work could be delayed, or if I can do it from home. Most managers want their direct reports to be happy, happy equals productivity. I haven't seen what you've observed in the tech firms that I have worked for, but I suspect you might have had a difference experience. In my experience, the work-life balance was always preached in the interest of keeping people happy, despite work-life balance being nothing more than a term coined to get managers out of a sticky situation with HR-related events. Any how, I digress. Amy has applied some deep rationale to her blog post because she felt robbed of her time and possibly her youth. Sadly, her reputation with prospective employers might be influenced by her choice of words in the interest of ""fucking glory."" I suppose in the arrogance of youth that's a way of saying fuck glory. There is a part of me that think this will work to her advantage at some point.."