"I appreciate the detailed responses, truthfully however I feel like at least half of your points are either just argumentative for its sake alone, display a deep lack of understanding of unions, collective bargaining, and the histories of both, or ignore pragmatism and cling to an uncompromising and ultimately self-defeating ideology. > Collective bargaining is an ambiguous term that could refer to many concepts. There is voluntarily agreed to collective bargaining, which has nothing wrong with it, and then there are laws that FORCE the employer to collectively bargain with a union if a union requests it, which is a mandate and violates the employer's contract liberty. The law forces the two parties to sit at a table. The law forces the two parties to discuss a few core things, like wages. The law *doesn't* force anyone to agree to anything, and very often they don't. I don't see how this is a violation of anyone's ""contract liberty"" (a term I've actually never heard before). The idea is since these worker-employer disputes exist naturally, making them at least sit at a table together and talking is helpful in avoiding ego and testosterone fueled disruptions where no one benefits. If this you see this as a violation of one's liberty, I really don't know what to say to that. > The prevalence of child labor was decreasing long before any law was created prohibiting it. Child labor is necessary in poor countries because people are far less productive per hour worked. I'm not saying I don't believe you, but citation needed. > As productivity increases, parents can afford to send their children off to school instead of working, since their own work is enough to support the family. Wouldn't educating children first lead to an increase in productivity? Also, what if the owners of the means of production, only a few in an given area, have incomes 100x greater than the workers? They seem to be producing enough wealth to support themselves, only they're not the beneficiaries. What's the solution here? I understand that in a poor country child labor is seen as a necessity; however I think there is a moral issue when someone from a developed nation opens a factory in a third-world country with conditions that they would not want someone in their own family subjected to. Maybe these conditions are standard in the third-world country, but just because they're standard that doesn't mean the people there are happy with them. > In other words, no government mandate created due to union-pressure can possibly lead to beneficial change, since laws that limit people's economic rights, under the assumption that 51% knows what's better for the minority than they themselves do, generally do much more harm than good. This is quite a leap. Problem is you always assume that a company is always paying workers as much as it can instead of having a net income that can absorb an uptick in overhead. > As history over the last century has shown, it's no hyperbole. Labor unions-backed regulations (soft-socialism) has succeeded in spite of the resistance of employers. And you owe this to violence or the threat of violence? Citation needed. > Because unions have destroyed nearly every major industry where they had a natural tendency to form (large scale capital intensive manufacturing operations where large numbers of workers were concentrated in one place). This is typical anti-union propaganda, and it's funny you pull it out since it ignores your own ideology. What interest would a union have in destroying the very industry it needs to exist? Answer: none. This is just a way for a business to deflect criticism when they want to outsource, killing US jobs just to increase their net income. Unions make concessions when they have to. > The force of government prevents companies from refusing to collectively bargain with a labor union. Threat of violence? Violent strikes? This is a straw-man if I've ever seen one. Who is threatening violence here? This existed before government laws were created that made legal threats on behalf of employees that want to keep unionized employees employed and force companies to collectively bargain with a union. Now of course the strikers themselves are not directly threatening violence, since they are backed by the force of government. This is just showing a tremendous amount of ignorance regarding the way things actually happen. > Collectively bargaining doesn't benefit workers in general. It benefits in the short-term, those workers who are employed and unionized, at the expense of long-term wage growth and employment opportunities for the unemployed and non-unionized employees. I have no idea how one could come to this conclusion. I can only assume it stems from the same old idea that employers are always paying out the most that they can afford. I happen to have first-hand knowledge that it's false however - when my workplace unionized recently, one of around a dozen locations nationally and the only one to organize, the company responded by increasing wages and benefits to all locations. Have any locations closed? No. Has anyone been laid off? No. Is the company still mad profitable? Yes."