"> I will need to see sources, but actually they are claiming that it is on every stock, bond or derivative. Let me know when you find a source for this claim. > That is clearly not the same as ""I didn't ask to be born"" True, however only if you are taking action to change the condition that you are railing against. Just saying ""I didn't ask for to be born into this"" just rings hollow in my ears. Voting is definitely more productive. Running for office to push the ideas would do even more. Heading out to open land to make your society in your image would definitely prove your point, as long as it works. > I love how you assume that it takes a government to have a stable civilization. I don't assume, we only have some 10,000 years of recorded history to provide some backup for the statement. And not saying that this form of government is perfect, we just have plenty of evidence that no government is less so. > The only infrastructure I truly need to trade stock now is my computer (made by a private business), my electricity (provided to me by another private business), and my internet connection. That is not true. Lets go beyond the invention of internet. It exists, and it provides us with the ability to trade stock, so lets pretend that it always existed so, and ignore the billions of investment in infrastructure and R&D it took to get her (on commercial as well as governments part). So, the inference that you made is all you need to trade is your computer, electricity, and the internet.. all provided by commercial entities. No need for government. Yes, and no. How long do you think that electricity would keep pumping if there was no one to regulate how much each district gets to pull? If there was no one to enforce pricing and payment? After all, if the electricity company cuts power to a house, and they just run out to the junction box and hot wire their own connection - who stops them? If there is no government, that how do we keep people paying? And when the electricity company decides that they are going to artificially jack up prices (Enron style), who keep them based in reality? Do we just wait for a violent uprising? > However, ""statistics"" can't help us in this case. True. Do you have any examples of innovation in highly unregulated markets? I still haven't seen or heard of what the ""ideal"" market would look like, just lots of rhetoric about the problems with this one. > There are a lot of examples like the f-35 fighter jet that cost American Taxpayers nearly $1.5 trillion. That would be a corporation that won the right to build the next evolution of the fighter jet by under bidding the cost, and having all kinds of cost overruns. Not to mention scope creep from the customer - i.e. Yes, we want it to do everything we asked for in the RFP, but we also want it to cook coffee doing Mach 5. Keep in mind, that the F-35 was a partership between government and commercial, so not a very good example about how ""government is bad at stuff"" because commercial is also involved (granted also not a good example of how government is good at stuff - there is definitely lots of examples of pork in government). And as for the $6.5 trillion, if I remember correctly it wasn't that it disappeared, it was that it wasn't recorded correctly. Much of that money is not actual money, it was double, triple, quadruple counted because the accounting error wasn't caught early. And there were thousands of people involved in this situation. But again, an example of how government isn't good at everything. Course, I could always point to a topic near and dear to your heart, and talk about how a [single person caused a $16B selloff](http://www.cnbc.com/id/36999483). To put that in perspective, that is $16B caused by one person - much bigger than $25,000 per person. Or how a [single tweet erased $130B](http://business.time.com/2013/04/24/how-does-one-fake-tweet-cause-a-stock-market-crash/) in a days time. The markets are not exactly perfect either. Of course you could always say it is an example about how government is imperfect at regulating either - and we would both be right. The ungoverned civil society is not a new topic, or approach. I just don't think I have seen any examples of one that succeeded. Mankind always seem to coalesce into some form of structure when presented with ungoverned chaos. What that structure looks like is not always good, and not always bad. I think how ours has formed is pretty good, although I do agree it could be better."