"Not to mention that what they were doing was ""the right way to do it"" for many decades. It was simply seen as the norm that you would have a job, take part of your savings, and put that into a 401k, because it was the only way to really provide for a safe future. So..that's what we did. Oops. The other big difference between Gen X and the surrounding generations, in regards to retirement, is Social Security. The Baby Boomers will have Social Security for most of the rest of their lives; it's funded, and it won't be a problem. Millenials have mostly come of age knowing that's a joke. Gen X, on the other hand, grew up and worked at least part of their lives under the assumption that Social Security, while having problems, would at least provide some help. However, with the way the economy and government is going, it's very possible that won't be a guarantee without major adjustments (decreased payout, increased retirement age, etc), so they're going to be taking it there as well. That's not even to get started on the mortgage situation. For a lot of us X'ers, we bought homes near or at the top of the bubble, again, because everyone was telling our generation that we were foolish for renting; ""Why, with the tax incentives in place and the way housing prices have been rising the last 20 years, you're just throwing your money away by renting!"" So again, the Baby Boomers enjoyed 20-30 years of rising home prices, giving them a chance to build up a lot of equity and refinance at lower and lower rates; the millenials, again, were shielded simply by not being at the point in their lives where it would be a problem. Once again, it's Gen X that was just trying to do what they had observed as working their entire life. I think Generation X will rise out of everything that has happened much wiser. Most of us have been through enough at this point that I think we're beginning to become very untrusting of ""the way things are"", and that will have heavy ramifications as the reigns of power fall from the Boomers to the X'ers. May you live in interesting times.."