"> The Washington Examiner > Freedom Works OK bud. I'm sure these are entirely non-biased pieces of first-class journalism. Especially with titles like that. > President Obama has been spending a lot of time with the 1 percent lately, trying to get them to pony up to keep Democrats from losing control of Congress in November. The horror that someone would *spend time* with rich people. That fucking monster. Let's just elect one of them instead. WTF is even the accusation here? > On Wednesday, Obama was in Cambridge, Mass., for a ""roundtable discussion"" with about 25 supporters who paid $32,400 each for the opportunity, followed by a Democratic National Committee fundraiser in Boston where the tickets started at $5,000 a pop. And? Doesn't demand justify price? If people bought tickets, then obviously those people thought that was a fair price. Is this not the free market at work that capitalists should like? Is that not the same as doubling Mara Lago membership rates after the election? Should the tickets to this discussion have been $5 just because or something? If I want to meet one-on-one with Mr. Trump, I'm going to have that opportunity without ponying up serious cash? Puh-lease. > The Democrats like to complain about the ""evil"" Koch brothers, one of whom, David, recently donated $35 million to the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History to build a new hall for its collection of dinosaurs. That's the largest single donation ever to the publicly-administered museum and nearly twice the $18 million both brothers have spent on federal elections since 1989. wtf is this non-sequitur about the Smithsonian? Is Journalism at the Washington Examiner just throwing in random bullshit? > On the list of top political donors compiled by OpenSecrets.org, the Koch brothers rank only 59th. Meanwhile, the top 10 list is dominated by unions and corporations which benefit from handouts and special favors from government (which really means you, the taxpayer) and give overwhelmingly to the party that keeps them coming, the Democrats. Yeah, no shit this election cycle when the GOP nominated a reality TV star. In the last election cycle, according to OpenSecrets, that was not the case. The majority of campaign donations by corporations went to Republicans. So instead of ""crony capitalism"", the Washington Examiner should look at the real cause, the embarrassment to the Republican party."