"I find those ""government checks"" arguments to be more appealing in theory than in reality. Ultimately, it comes down to deciding who gets what.. and who gets to be the decider. Capitalism is far from perfect, but it decides who gets what through the individual, decentralized choices of everyone. Again, it's not perfect by any means, but it is dispersed - and everyone makes decisions for themselves, not for other people. Government action decides who gets what through a highly indirect process of electing politicians, and decisions are made by a small group of people, who are under, practically speaking, very little oversight or control. A few people make decisions for everyone else. Government action is, despite all our desire and efforts to avoid this, necessarily subject to the same disparities in influence/control as the market .. It may come in different forms, and the consequences may manifest differently (often less readily apparent), but there is no avoiding the ""a few people have a lot more control than everyone else"" problem. Governments are more prone to corruption because they trade the intangible currency of ""power"" in addition to money. No matter how you go about doing so, it's always easier to counteract a private actor than a government (given roughly equivalent levels of influence, obviously). I understand the desire for intervention, but I think we have a scary tendency to place far too much weight on good intentions, and far too little weight on consequences. It's so easy to think things through in your head (I do often) and come up with a plan that could obviously work exactly as intended for everyone's benefit. In doing so, we forget that people aren't pawns to be guided through life for someone else's vision (or pursuit of utopia or anything else) . .. they have lives, desires, interests, plans of their own, and theirs are just as valid as yours or mine. The reality is that you and I are probably far more similar than either of us would guess. But there are still huge differences - what we value, what we want to do next year, whether we want that promotion or want to get laid off so we can finally start our dream business, whether we want money for family vacations or medical bills.. so many differences that I couldn't ever fairly and accurately represent your interests without you actually telling me what they are. That's just the 2 of us. There are 300 million people in the US - we can't comprehend even really knowing a thousand well enough to genuinely speak on their behalf. In theory, big plans make everything better. In practice, they run into the reality that humans truly aren't pawns, and controlling 300 million people and predicting their responses/actions is way more difficult than it seems. Big plans often end up with real people - people who are just as deserving of opportunities and rights as everyone else - getting really hurt because some guy he doesn't know (and who doesn't know him) had an idea and the power to enforce it on everyone. I'm not saying that all government interference is bad, of course, and I'm not saying it shouldn't happen. Government interventions that are straightforward wealth transfers are probably less harmful to people .. like a tax on the rich to give hefty tax refunds to the poor, is more direct and less prone to causing unintentional harm then things like wage manipulations."