"Bernie sources: http://www.npr.org/2016/02/12/466465333/sanders-favors-a-speculation-tax-on-big-wall-street-firms-what-is-that http://www.marketwatch.com/story/what-would-bernie-sanders-wall-st-tax-look-like-2016-02-14 http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/apr/04/bernie-s/bernie-sanders-says-wall-street-tax-would-pay-his-/ > Heading out to open land to make your society in your image would definitely prove your point, as long as it works. And do that how? Buy my own island? Sea-stead and hope the US military doesn't just drop a seal team on my head? >We just have plenty of evidence that no government is less so. No, we really have evidence that structure is better than nothing. I'm not advocating for no structure. Businesses/Charities/Organizations/Etc. obviously work better when they are well structured. To answer your Enron example, no corporation would have enough power to actually do something like that if they didn't have at least partial backing by the government. You know the drill, big business buy politicians (""contributions""), politicians write big business laws (Anti-competitive to push small guys out). Then when big business needs additional help, politicians come in to save the day (bailouts). The market would be extremely more competitive if for example the Dodd frank act which to my understanding the repeal just recently passed the house went away. It has been choking community banks, just like Glass-Stegal did. It essentially only allowed the big banks to compete, surprise they did some stupid things (Great Recession) But if you don't think they didn't already know that they those bailouts were coming if needed, you are fooling yourself. These messages are almost getting to the point of TLDR. I want to simplify our debate a bit. The crux of my whole belief is this: The only way for a government to spend their citizens money in a better way than the citizens could would be if the government knew the utility of every single citizen. It is absolutely impossible to do that. The only people that truly know their own utility from something is them self. From here on I would like to debate the headlines like what I wrote above and not necessarily bullet points. We can every now and then but I find that we then start working on tangents of tangents of tangents and can get a little messy. However, I do not want to leave the current stones unturned with your response. I would say that if it was privatized, you are not going to have scope creep, at least not to the same extent. Say we have the LA militia that is wanting to help protect their ports, they want to help develop a new boat that is fast and can help maneuver around big ships quickly, like a better version of the new Mark Patrol boat. That money is their money directly, or the peoples money who they've asked to voluntarily give their money up to help protect their area. If they screw up and start asking for above necessary stuff or pick a developer who wastes their money, etc. They are going to lose ""business"", they will stop getting donations, lose profit, etc. However, the government doesn't have that. Why? Because their revenue/donations aren't voluntary. There really isn't accountability, especially in bureaucracy. To the exchange/stock problem: I would say that exchanges are private businesses too. They should have full reign on whether they allow trades. If they believe that there is an unnecessary selloff because of a fake tweet saying that President has been shot, they can stop that. If fact, it would be in there best interest to do so because it could limit unnecessary investor losses. It is unfortunate that the whole world is covered with governments. I wish there was another Western Hemisphere to populate and try new ways with. However, I would say that there is a clear shift away from government is society. A few examples, the driverless car. Elderly people and people who are disabled will be able to rely on the government less for transportation. Additionally, assuming everyone will eventually have a driverless car, there will be much less demand for traffic cops/ambulances/etc. Cryptocurrency/Noncash: As there are now more and more businesses that stop accepting cash (mainly starting with change), there will naturally be less robbers, because there is no money to steal (you could make the argument that there will be an increase in cyber theft, which I agree but not on a 1:1 ratio of the decrease in physical robberies), this decrease will help also lessen the demand for police officers. Package delivery: If it wasn't for the post office monopolizing their ability to deliver letters and using mailboxes, they would have gone broke a long time ago. Imagine Amazon, DHL, UPS, Fedex, etc all competing to deliver you letter. I'm assuming that it would be less than the cost of a current stamp and with a lot more assurance that it will actually get to its destination. Those are just a few examples"