"I work at a mid market investment bank and while we don't usually use required rates of return (when we do it's typically in ranges based on previous experience in the market e.g. PE firms will look at IRR of 25%+ on mezz deals etc..) I can offer some insight into how you can think about it. ""Required rate of return"" is a fairly arbitrary concept and literally is whatever you define it to be. Typically, the required rate of return is a function of risk i.e. the higher the riskiness of a project, the higher the return must be to compensate you for taking on that risk (this view is as per Markowitz's modern portfolio theory). This is easier said than done however as ""risk"" is tricky to define (The general, though somewhat outdated, rule is that risk = variability of returns). To your questions: 1. How is rate of return determined: In my field of work (fairly niche) required rate of returns aren't usually an exact science and are typically based on i) financial leverage in the business ii) operating risk (seasonality, management team strength etc..) iii) type of security (e.g. for debt deals, what is the investment secured by) 2. Am I correct in thinking a firm will just choose a rate of return that they are already receiving? No, you are not correct, UNLESS the risk profile of the investment opportunity matches your current business. E.g. if you're a shoe manufacturer earning 15% on your capital and are looking to acquire another manufacturer in the same business with the same risk profile, then you can use your current rate of return as the requirement. If for e.g. you're a shoe manufacturer contemplating opening a new fully automated plant which will cost half your current net worth but allow you to triple your production, you will need to use a different (higher) required rate of return to compensate your firm for the additional risk it's taking on. E.g. if your shiny new plant only gets you a 15% return, you might as well deploy your capital in your current business at a much lower risk and earn the same amount of money. Disclaimer: I have simplified. Significantly."