>Huh? Agriculture is down to single digits as part of the GDP. What does that have to do with a gold standard and monetary policy? I was being sarcastic. >But as soon as the USA left the gold exchange standard, total factor productivity began to dramatically stagnate. Correlation doesn't equal causation. Remember that this is also the same time that European, Japanese, and Soviet economies were picking back up after WW2. Global production picked up and there was more international competition. >Because our massive debt is doing so well for us? In the beginning it looks nice because there is very little pain and is practically unnoticible, but as we see current events playing out in the US and to a greater extent Europe which isnt as tightly knit economically as the US, fiat currency has huge problems. The EU cannot print money in the same way the USA can. If anything the Euro is a cautionary tale about currency's with too stringent printing limitations. Along with tying together a set of countries at vastly different levels of economic development. The USA is not anywhere near the point of no return, and seeing as we can finance our debt at ridiculously low rates compared to the rest of the world, it would be much simpler to do that, than try and restructure the entire monetary system of the USA. >Established over what? the last 40 years? We are at about 80-90 years now. >Thats hardly enough time to call practical fact when the gold standard existed for hundreds and thousands of years. The gold standard has not been in use for hundreds of thousands of years. Nor was it the only currency previous to fiat. >I am not sure why you think that the USA is in such a great position. The american dream is faultering if you're just starting out in life. Just ask any number of recent college grads who are increasingly living with parents, not getting married and can't find jobs. I don't think asking my local college grad is a good way of determining the USA's macro-economic situation. You're absolutely right that there is a major major disparity of wealth problem. But the gold standard isn't the reason for that. Unemployment Insurance and Welfare are also comically small portions of the budget. If you wanna talk about cutting spending, Defense and Medicare are where it's at. And you don't even have to hurt old people or soldiers to fix them.