>They especially The Atlantic does investigative journalism. Vice on the other hand does investigative journalism on the level of Buzzfeed. The Atlantic is a magazine publisher. They publish curated content. They do not produce that content. Buzzfeed was started as a viral lab to track viral content, then it developed into a internet media production house. That's why they try to produce viral content, but have a general reputation for creating clickbait. The most legitimate part of its reporting is that it actually pays reporters to go to things like the Whitehouse Press junkets. Its revenue is about ~$150M a year. Vice is a broadcast company worth over $4B. Its revenues exceed $1B a year, particularly due to its lucrative deal with HBO. The fact that HBO charges premium prices for access to this content should be enough to distinguish it from outlets like Buzzfeed (which is completely free and open to access). Vice is a producer of content and not just a publisher/broadcaster of information. You've falsely equated them in quality to buzzfeed, perhaps by correlating that they are both recent upstarts. >I mean this linked piece is shallow to say the least. Correct. I'm very skeptical of anyone reporting on a report that they, themselves, co-wrote, while touting co-founding an advocacy organization as somehow being a qualifier/credential. I would normally consider this to be paid content, although it is unclear if the writer paid for Vice to publish it. The quality of the image editing was also very poor. Of course, I doubt this content would ever make it into the more premium Vice communication channels, specifically I doubt this content would be covered in any capacity on HBO. That's why I said, at some point, that the quality of its reporting is inconsistent and sometimes quite dubious. >Why you think Vice does quality work is beyond me. The only possible reason is you are their main demographic. It's not because it appeals to me. As someone well-versed in media politics, I ensure that my media diet is diverse and broadly sourced. The reason that I think some of their work is good is because I actually read it and think some of it is actually credible and worthy of my time. It's very clear that you do not find Vice news credible, so you want to act like your perceptions are equal in value and accuracy with my perceptions of it. The problem with your logic is that I actually am exposed to its content while you self-select not to expose yourself to it. I like some of it, because I find that some of it has a reasonable basis underlying the claim and I can't get the news anywhere else. So, you think our perceptions are equally accurate although mutually exclusive (i.e. we disagree with each other) or you think your perceptions are more accurate than mine (most likely due to a confirmation bias), but the reality is that my perceptions are broadly based considerations based on a much larger sampling of their content while your perceptions amount to an opinion derived from a first impression glance.