> itizens we all have the right to shop in public shops and eat in public restaurants. This is your imagination speaking. You have no such right by any defintion of the word nor can you cite any philosophical foundation for such a right. If we have this right, then I have the right to attend your dinner parties without an invitation for exactly the same foundational reasons. > As a business owner I would happily choose a world in which I And you should absolutely have that freedom, but not at the cost of denying others THEIR freedoms which is what you want. You - like so many Saviors Of Mankind - have decided that you are so right, you get to use force to jam it down our collective throats. > that ensures the poor remain poor and the rich remain rich. I actually did grow up poor and have far more insight into this than you and your fellow Saviors. Ongoing (inter-generational) poverty in the West is a matter of bad behavior, not oppression. Go live with your beloved poor for a year and discover the lousy personal choices, the reproductive irresponsibility, the substance abuse, and the laziness that keeps them where they are. Bluntly, anyone that stays poor -absent the profoundly handcapped - deserves it. > I would argue that the centers of poverty you listed are much more a symptom of the systematic undercutting Of course you would .. any actual assesment of Reality would eviscerate such an argument. The essence of your worldview is to first deny Reality because it is only without reference to Reality that your ideas could possibly have any currency. > I was a true believer. I did grow up. You sold out and abdicated because you do not have the moral courage to speak the truth: The rich are rich for a reason and the poor are poor for a reason. That reason has nothing (or little) to do with circumstances, oppression, racism, The Man, or any of the other Fairy Tales you've concocted to justify your foolishness. You've just capitulated to your guilt as a successful person. Deep down inside you don't think you've earned it so you want to sacrifice all the rest of us on the altar of your limp wristed weakness. No thanks ..