What do you want to do with your degree? Corporate finance? Investment banking? Wealth management? It all depends on that. Having said that here are some ideas that are useful in a wide variety of scenarios: 1. Accounting, accounting, accounting. Whether you are at an I-Bank or a mid-cap consumer goods company, knowing as much accounting as possible can be hugely helpful. Ive interviewed for jobs at all kinds of companies and one thing that always works on interviewers is showing them you have intimate knowledge of accounting rules. 2. Excel/information system courses. Knowing Excel inside and out and/or some of the more widely used information systems out there can give you a nice little bump in interviews 3. Statistics. Statistics teaches you how to think. Even if you never run a regression again in your life, some of the general principles you learn in stats are absolutely priceless. Not just for work but for *life*. Knowing why you need to control for variables, why samples work, etc. can be a hugely helpful thing not just at work but in dealing with life decisions and sorting through information. Some people here are telling you to learn how to program. That's useful if you want to be a quant or if you want to keep the door open to potentially moving into a quant/data analytics job in the future and that's about it. Companies hire software engineers to do the coding. If you intend to work as an investment banker or a wealth manager, for example, Java wont help you a lick. Let the engineers worry about writing the code. Focus on the stuff that actually moves your career forward and dont try to be everything. If you absolutely want to do something software-related then learn SQL. At least in some shops (particularly corporate finance jobs) you might from time to time be able to use it to query some database or another, although again at most companies there are entire armies of well-paid people providing the necessary interfaces and tools to prevent you from having to do that.