It is a highly competitive market with many local competitors who already understand the shopping habits of the Chinese, which are very different to those of consumers in the Western world. Chinese platforms such as Taobao and Tmall dominate the shopping world in China, so it is crucial to understand exactly how these platforms run in order to successfully market your own brand. One of the biggest problems that you will initially face when entering the Chinese market is that, as a business entering from the outside, you are essentially invisible to the Chinese market. You have no existing reputation within China, and any existing reputation you have is not guaranteed to help you. As China is cut off from the rest of the world by the ‘great firewall’ (no access to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Google, etc), there is no way in which Chinese consumers will be able to research your company on it’s existing platforms and therefore gain an idea of any previous reputation your business may have. So what is the solution? Start by building your reputation and visibility on Chinese platforms in order to ultimately drive leads and sales. Below are some essential tips on how to start doing this successfully. BAIDU DOMINATES ONLINE Currently, there are an estimated 900 million internet users across China, with most users spending 1.5 hours a day just browsing. Baidu is the most popular search engine across China. Think of it as ‘the Google of China’. This site is where 70% of all online research is carried out, so it is important to become visible in the search results through SEO (search engine optimisation), you need to build backlinks, produce quality content and audit the site for Chinese keyword searches to rank highly in the results over time. Baidu also brings the opportunity of paid advert links and banner ads, both very effective ways of reaching a wider audience. SOCIAL MEDIA IS A NECESSITY OF LIFE As the most popular social media app across China, it is imperative that your company becomes familiar with the inner workings of Wechat. Wechat is fundamentally a social media app, which allows the user to chat to friends, post photos and make free calls, however, it allows so much more than that. Booking cinema tickets, taxis, flights, topping up mobile phone credit, paying bills and even paying in store through Wechat pay are all possible. Many local and foreign companies already successful in China have official accounts on Wechat. An official account acts like a mini site, or an E store. You can personalise it to reflect the vibe of your brand, so an eye catching, professional looking account is key. An official account also allows the user to shop. Shopping in this way is becoming increasingly popular with the Chinese, as it is so quick and straightforward with payment being taken straight from your Wechat wallet. Many companies now also offer customer service through Wechat. Again, this is highly advisable as this is a service many Chinese consumers will now look for as it is quick and direct. Weibo is another popular social media app used across China. Think of Weibo as ‘the Twitter of China’. Weibo is an open network site so users can see posts from anyone without being their friend or following them. Similar to Twitter, Weibo can be an excellent way to market your company by sharing the latest updates, offers, promotions etc. Your followers can also start to share your content helping your company’s reputation spread by word of mouth. [Read more](https://marketingtochina.com/market-new-business-china)