ANNUAL WEBSITE MAINTENANCE Website maintenance prices need not be high. It is easier to hand over the website maintenance to professionals rather than giving stress to your head with the technological nitty gritties of maintaining a website. We have flexible packages for monthly and yearly maintenance of websites that don't cost you much. We even have a once-in-while website maintenance package wherein you only pay when you do updates which controlls website maintenance cost. Additionally, we take up Web Maintenance for the smooth functioning of your site and to keep you on top of the search engines at a reasonable cost. Web Promotions includes a lot of dedicated work for long period of time. Continuous work is required on your website to enable it maintain its top rank in the search engines and keep giving you business all through the year. Website Maintenance Packages / Prices Techevolution Digital offers you a complete package of web site design, domain hosting and maintenance of your website or portal. Our professional web site or portal maintenance services are of two types. The first includes free web maintenance for a period of One year for all those website developed by us, as we take up a web site maintenance contract of one whole year. This plan is complete in itself and undertakes website design and development and maintenance of your web site. The other web site maintenance plan is a regular web maintenance service plan that we provide to people who already own a website but want some professional maintenance of their website. This is too less web site maintenance plan and cost you only Rs. 5250 per month. Under this scheme or plan we not only maintain your existing webpages but also add any new pages or information that you may need to add from time to time. The above web site maintenance cost may be increased if the work is higher under maintenance and update of a website. In such cases the web site maintenance cost/fee will go up and our portal maintenance prices will be calculated by the man-hours spent in updating such a website. We give you the option of a fixed web maintenance cost under some selected packages.