">The rules are regulations are setup as needed As needed by whose definition? >Govt. sets new rules as needed as a response to something, not because people in the govt. who change every few years feel so. And you just claimed you weren't naive! >all adhering to the same laws Government doesn't follow laws, it makes them. YOU are the one expected to follow laws. >it makes sense to keep it and if not, it gets repealed What resounding bullshit! Let's talk about how many laws are passed versus how many are repealed. Why is pot illegal? >Govt. does care about fairness Bizarrely oblivious to reality. >HFT's existing is proof that govt. lets free market and private business start things as it pleases till such time as it stops being fair for all. There's no ""let"" to it. The government is not physics, where nothing happens without its leave. >Govt. is not really an inhibitor to free market You don't know what a free market is, if you think the main thing that inhibits and distorts markets and makes them NOT free, ""is not really an inhibitor"". >Govt. is just people who agreed with it, joined the govt and made it so and others agreed I don't agree, yet I will be isolated or killed if I refuse to obey. >If we don't agree in future, it can be changed. Hilariously naive. When were you *ever* asked consent? >There is a term as regulated free market There is no such thing as a ""regulated free market"". That's like saying ""white black"" or ""inside outside"". They are opposites. >I don't think you really want to talk I don't think you want to listen. >You just want to spew your ignorant libertarian viewpoints And you're spewing wildly ignorant statist bullshit. >You just blindly believe the govt. is always wrong with no logic or justification, just like religious people. You're the one with religion here, and it's government you're worshiping. If government is a religion, I'm an atheist. >But it is some times and it does do the right things many times Well golly gee, better blindly adhere to it then! >But I don't believe like you do at all because I think for myself and reason. Sounds like you're letting government think for you, but accusing *me* of blindly following others *who I don't even give a shit about!* Stossel is a jackass, and Paul is irrelevant. >I won't bother replying to you anymore Just want to spew a bunch of wild bullshit and demand that I not reply, huh? Just want to expound freely on something you know nothing about and refuse to listen when someone tries to show you how you're wrong? >So you've never been taken to reason or logic like others have to you on this board. Oh my, thank you for saving me with your ""reason"" and ""logic"". Clearly I've been a fool. >Look at the other replies to your posts - almost all contradict you. Popularity is not correctness. Lots of times in human history, common opinion has been fucking retarded. Flies auto-generating from rotting meat? Earth being the center of existence? Lots of people believe lots of dumb shit, just like you."