">First off the SEC is under-funded anyhow And insane homeless persons don't have a lot of operating capital, but that doesn't change the fact that they would not make good use of more capital if they had it. The SEC is a joke, a completely captured entity. >I disagree. First off the SEC is under-funded anyhow, and most economists agree that there needs to be better regulation of the exchanges; ya know since it can fucking crash our economy and send us into WW3. They only have this power because the government gave it to them! If the government took away the titty, we'd see the financial services industry wither back to a reasonable size. >Secondly, it's a flat Transaction tax much like any other State Sales Tax. State Sales Tax is arguably the most successful form of taxation there is, b/c it's so damn easy to implement, and so damn easy to audit. Sidestepping of course whether or not the states have any right to this sort of taxation in the first place. >You're blowing this thing way out of proportion. They require the markets to charge a Transaction tax, and then they do periodic audits to ensure each exchange is doing it. Enron had periodic audits also, and it didn't mean a fucking thing. So did Lehman Brothers, and all the other crap piles. >If you think that letting a market die and having new ones pop up periodically is a good idea then holy shit. ""If you think that letting a person die while new ones are born is a good idea then holy shit."" We evolve and improve through death and replacement. Use of force to avoid a natural death leads to massive distortions in our mutual reality. >Financial markets need stability & regulation. Finance doesn't like uncertainty. Markets need stability, stability is created by flexibility in response to changing conditions. Regulations reduce flexibility which creates instability. Finance doesn't like uncertainty and boy, I don't like it when it rains and I forgot my jacket, but *you cannot control the Universe!* You have to respect that the world is not at your command, and if you can't live with that, adapt to it, and work anyway, you just need to die and let someone more capable take your place. Basically, if physics worked like you think, we'd never have made it past the Big Bang because reality would be too concerned with the resulting instability and uncertainty."