"First Bernie, I found something I hadn't seen before. I will need to see sources, but actually they are claiming that it is on every stock, bond or derivative. As more than half of Americans just own stock, that would hurt a lot of people. To get a better route on this argument we need to do something first about the first part of your response. We need to separate what I'm just going to call the ""old infrastructure"" and the ""new infrastructure"", let's say the difference is all new infrastructure is what I've had a ""say"" in, either I was able to vote for the politician/referendum. If I vote no against that politician/referendum, that means I am not asking for it. That is clearly not the same as ""I didn't ask to be born"" Even if I didn't vote in the poll, that still doesn't mean that I should be implicitly taken as a yes. > I am sure there are millions of people born in third world countries who would feel for your horrible plight! Ah yes, the people have it worse than you do argument. I really don't need to say anything else to that. > Ahh, but either exist without society and the stability of civilization? While Democracy and a Republic are imperfect, they are a sight better than a Theocracy or a monarchy. I love how you assume that it takes a government to have a stable civilization. Also, it's not like I'm advocating for a Theocracy or Monarchy so that really doesn't matter. I advocate for something better than a Democracy or Republic. A society in which involves individuals as the key element of society. I want individuals to have maximum freedom to pursue their own goals however they see fit as long as they don't interfere with others natural rights. None of which needs the involvement of the government to do so. All of which we can discuss if you would like. The only infrastructure I truly need to trade stock now is my computer (made by a private business), my electricity (provided to me by another private business), and my internet connection. Yes you can make the argument that the government ""created the internet"". Really they created packet switching but regardless. The internet doesn't have much function if you have no interface to use it with. Xerox made not only the first graphical computer, which of course later inspired Steve Jobs at Apple, they also made the first standardized Ethernet connection. The internet is nothing if you can't even connect to it. Additionally, it's not like a private enterprise couldn't maintain the internet infrastructure. They do virtually everything that runs from the backbone to my apartment. So really, I don't need the government to be able to trade my stocks. > Statistics tell us otherwise. That is simply not the case, you said yourself earlier that it was something that we can't know. You're right in the aspect that we can't know. The past is the past and the present is the present. It is impossible to see what would have happened if we changed X in the past. Statistics can help us with things like demographics in Iran or probabilities of being rich. However, ""statistics"" can't help us in this case. Thank you for the compliment. I do admire your ability to maintain your debate without defaulting to something like yelling and screaming, ad hominems, etc. Edit: I don't know why I didn't immediately think of this, I remember reading all of the articles about it. There are a lot of examples like the f-35 fighter jet that cost American Taxpayers nearly $1.5 trillion. http://time.com/money/4310099/f-35-budget-pay-free-college-student-loans/ I'll need to find some links to it. But I also remember seeing that the Pentagon misappropriated I think somewhere in the range of $6.5 trillion on their balance sheet. Just gone, the value of 8x Apple Corporation, just ""disappeared"". To put just those two issues in perspective, that is almost 25,000 for every man, woman, and child in this country"