My friend there is hope. I am 36 and went back to school 3 years ago. I will graduate in December with a BBA in Finance. I have a family, (3 girls-7,4,2), I Work almost full time, have I side business, and I am heavily involved in a society on campus (the Investment Society). I crashed an Burned out of school when I was 18/19. Here in Texas your grades always follow you. We have a renew program which wipes your slate clean, but I had 16 hours I wanted to use so I took the hit. There is a difference between overall GPA and career study GPA. You can sometimes get by on the latter. A GPA is important for getting your foot in the door and for companies who have no idea who you are. If you have an in with a company then GPA is not as important. But you have to bust it going back. Your main focus will be getting the internship with the company you know and knowing the shit out of the fields of study. I am part of that Investment Society on campus. We grind at the subjects of time value, statistics, accounting, fundamentals, economics, technical, management, forecasting, model building, analysis, and even coding. Coding will be your biggest asset on top of knowing the fields of study. If you can talk the shit out of the jargon, concepts, and knowledge then you will do really well. In Finance though you have to be a master of many fields to do well. I would recommend getting your hands on some CFA study material and hit the highlights. I am nearing the end of college and realized that the CFA study material is a blueprint for a finance degree. Also get your CFA cert ASAP out of college. While everything is still fresh. I am not going into the field directly, as I am starting a company, but others around me are landing jobs in New York and Chicago. We are a rather irrelevant school in San Antonio, but our grads are getting picked up by Goldman, Black Rock, and JP. If you know your shit and network well and are ambitious then you have a good shot. If I can reinvent my life with all I have on my plate, then this should be cake for you. By that I mean Sweet and enjoyable. Just develop a plan, and get it done.