"Honestly, I think the best thing the government could do at this point is to stop with stimulus spending and let the market pick the winners and losers. The government is horrible at this because it just throws money where it makes sense politically, not economically (which is what got us into this mess in the first place). Obama is repeating all of the same mistakes made by Bush, but to a larger degree. When the dot-com bubble burst, Bush & Greenspan artificially lowered interest rates to 1% and printed money to ""stimulate"" the economy. The goal was not to create a housing bubble like what happened, but rather to get people to invest in stocks again. Instead, the people who had been bitten by stocks looked around and saw that housing had a history of increasing in value w/o nearly as much risk of loss, so they invested in housing instead. Clinton's and Bush's policies of guaranteeing loans to lower-income families for the purpose of buying homes also contributed to this, and the next thing you know - housing prices boomed because there was a massive demand.. thus leading to the housing market crash of 2007/8. But that's not all, you see, because as people started to believe that their homes would increase in value by huge amounts, they started spending more, risking more on the stock market, and generally going into massive debt because they felt wealthy. So in 2008, when the housing bubble crashed, so did the stock bubble and the personal debt bubble, leaving many home owners broke, their retirement funds (401k's and IRA's) destroyed, and without any means of paying their mortgages, thus the rise in people losing their homes. What has Obama's policy been? The same as Bush's policy, but he printed MORE (tripled our money supply in 3 years) and lowered interest rates even MORE (effectively to 0%). What so many people don't seem to understand is that printing money effectively steals money from the middle class. It's a hidden tax on our savings accounts. If more people realized this, they'd be outraged. Luckily for the government, most people are mindless sheep willing to buy into the political propaganda being pushed by the media."