"This is unfortunately the truth, and I spend a lot of time with my clients trying to help them through this process. One of the key metrics that banks judge themselves on is ""products per household."" The more things you have attached to them, the less likely you are to leave, and they deliberately tie you in with more and more services, e.g. direct deposit, billpay, debit cards, credit cards, etc. If you want to switch but are held back by the daunting task of all the stuff you need to do, it's easier than most people think, and bankers at those smaller banks who are getting your accounts should be more than happy to do about 80% of the work for you. *The other 20% can only be done by you personally due to privacy laws, but your banker can guide you through that too. A prime example: A customer of mine wanted to switch, but he didn't want to go to the old bank to actually wait in line and go through with the nonsense of actually closing the account. I see that anxiety over confrontation a lot, by the way. So I have saved on my desktop a form letter is a simple request by the customer to close their account at 2B2F bank. They sign it, I notarize it, and send it off to the branch. The branch of receipt has to close the account per the request. Before we send that letter, we get everything set up with the new bank, draw the old one down to $10 or so, and give instructions to the old bank to remit a check payable to the customer and mail it to me. Then the old account is closed, and I just deposit that nominal amount into the customer's account. The customer literally never has to set foot in the old bank again. The unfortunate thing is that not everyone knows that these kinds of things are even possible: that your banker should help you with this stuff, or that you can do pretty much everything remotely. Plus, if you look at the smaller banks and CUs these days, they have eliminated the need or ubiquity (i.e. ""but their ATMs are everywhere!"") because a good bank or CU will never allow you to get charged to get your money, they will give you the direct line and email address of your branch manager, and a lot of places have mobile apps that allow you to deposit checks remotely."