"> A trucking company making millions of dollars a year on US highways derives more value from the roads than I do. Trucking companies run on very slim margins (typical for a commoditized business) and the vast majority of benefit is captured by other players, employees, and the government (in the form of taxes). Moreover, you appear to be confusing revenue and profits. > Honestly anyone who says that they don't need to pay for roads because of their level of benefit from them is limited and I will call you a liar. Unless you are living in a box in the woods 100s of miles away from civilization you absolutely rely on the road system even if you never set foot on it. Nobody ever said this. You are inventing an argument in order to counter it. Silly. > Though at the same time a national highway system was something no business would ever make as it derives too little value for an individual business for the scale required to reach enough of the market. This is a perfect example of a project that is good for society but won't see the tab picked up by business voluntarily. Sure. Again, you are way off on a tangent though. Nobody here has argued against infrastructure nor taxes required to fund them. > It is foolish to assume your market value increases do not rely on infrastructure to happen. As much as paper-trading inflates value, for the most part, it is still tied to some kind of real work (or rather the expectation of) being done somewhere. That assumption of ability for a corporation to serve it's shareholders is based on the fact that companies have infrastructure needs handled and that expanding delivery to three new markets won't be hampered because the company must first complete the highway to serve these markets. Again, you seem confused about the argument. We are not arguing about the basis of stock valuations and appreciation (which you happen to be wrong on, btw). We are talking about the relative value of infrastructure gained by the wealthy vs. non-wealthy. Replace ""stock market"" with ""30 year US Treaury Bonds"". Actually, don't.. the next thing I'll see from you is some kind of comment about how infrastructure forms the basis for interest rates. >The existence of infrastructure not only supports the market but allows you to exploit it. The internet here makes a great example. Prior to funding and a push by the government to standardize military and academic networks and technology as well as make microprocessors more powerful in order to stay ahead in tech race we had a mish mash of proprietary networks with very poor abilities to use them. Today we have the internet. A largely private system today however it would not exist without the involvement and funding from the government for the multiple programs that led to it's existence. Great. Nobody ever said otherwise. > If the taxes really outweighed utility businesses would not operate in the area at all. The thing is, they don't and taxes are not preventing businesses from growing. I said personal utility. I personally employ 40 families. I pay considerable taxes for them. They pay income and sales taxes on top of that. It's a huge amount of money the government receives that they wouldn't have had I not chosen to go into business. Incidentally, this brings up another point. Doesn't the government owe me something for generating that many jobs? Why am I not getting a tax break? > Yes but that is because unless you are doing it ALL yourself then you did not generate that $10. As a business owner you are in charge of managing resources to help generate that $10, you yourself however did not generate that $10. You had employees, and contractors, and people managing your building, payroll and yes even taxes. Every person involved in getting the product or service from idea to the door are all part of that $10. If your efforts in that co-ordination are netting you 15% of the total then you are beating the market already and I am not sure what your problem is. If you are looking to double or triple your investments you are looking for Las Vegas not Wall St or Main St. I see you don't understand how business works. > I think the issue I see among people with your opinion is a failure to understand 2nd and 3rd order effects. Your bubble extends to what you do in your daily life and the parts of it you visibly see and touch. The world you see and touch every day is supported and made comfortable by a whole system and people whom you will never see or know. The issue I see among people with your opinion is that it is naive and obviously not based in any real world experience. If you had ever actually run a business, you would realize how many people get paid before you do (including the government). You have maybe a 5% chance of making an above average wage and you fight like hell every day to stay afloat. I encourage you to open your eyes and try to see the perspective of people who are actually making a difference in this world, and not the political lowlifes and lowlife leeches who have a vested interest in seeing to it that you believe something that simply isn't true."