">There is no fact that shows taxing the rich is good or bad. Sure there is. What is the outcome you are trying to achieve? What are the consequences of your solution (i.e. how does your solution turn into a problem)? If you are using evaluative concepts like ""fair"" as guiding design principles for a system, we are still able to articulate our intuitions of fairness when presented with specific facts. Is there going to be clear consensus? No. I agree with you in that sense it is ""opinion."" When you dig down and move beyond magic words like ""fair"" and get at the reasoning why a thing is fair or not, that is how you build common truth and consensus. That's how you have a meaningful discussion beyond ""Yeah, huh"" and ""Nah, uh."" Bringing facts allows you to ground out your argument and explore how principles are actually being applied, situate decisions historically, and connect choices with how they fit in our larger system. Are there definitive answers? You are, again, right there are not but ambiguity tolerance is a sign of intelligence, not a failing. >And my point isn't that Republicans are bad, but that they are covering their harmful economic policies with helpful ones. The obvious implication isn't that they are bad people, but that we should be critical of their bad policies and applaud their good ones. Let me just concede that you are policy focused. It is fairy uncontroversial also to say that stimulus causes the general public not to feel the effects of tax cuts until years later and so, there is less resistance to them. That can be true, however, while still seeing their choices made in relation to those made by democrats. Further, when you explain the situation, you can just as easily switch which side labeled ""harmful"" and ""helpful."" Are solutions to social problems which entail tax burdens placed consistently on one portion of the population again and again the ""harm""? Is it the tax cut which now underfunds an existing outlay? Or, is it an unhealthy relationship where one group expands and the other tries to reign in which leads to systemic instability? Moving away from evaluative language like ""harmful/helpful"", ""good/bad"", ""fair/unfair"" challenges us to articulate the history, the desired outcome, and move away from *us* vs. *them* thinking. You don't get an ideal correct solution with that approach but you do get closer to practical good enough ones that way."