We had this happen to us 2 months ago. There is basically a criminal organization called United telecom they are partnered with. United Telecoms business model is switching your long distance without your permission. We get a bill and each phone line has all these extra charges that add up to about $100. I call to find out what is happening and I find out we have been slammed (long distance switched without our permission). Apparently they call and ask if this is business X and if you say yes they are recording it and use that as evidence that you agreed to have your long distance switched. I spent close to six hours on the phone getting our account back in order. One of the people I spoke with at Centurylink said they got a lot of calls about United Telecom. It sounded like switching long distance services was a standard business practice for them. When I spoke with United Telecom, it was way to easy. The person that answered the phone removed our charged without any questions. I thought that was strangely easy. If this is actually how they make money, why would they back it off so easily? So I called Centurylink back because I figured there had to be something else they left out when I spoke with them earlier. After some digging, bundled up in an other charges section was about $5 for switching our long distance service. It took me almost a whole day to get this straightened out. I spoke with 16 different people at Centurylink. It became hilarious. I had them on speaker phone and we would just start laughing. One minute sir, I will connect you to business services. Here is the direct phone number in case you get disconnected. 20 minutes of being on hold, then, I am sorry sir this is residential I will have to transfer you to business. Same freaking thing, over and over and over. I assume most people just give up or don't have the time to sort this stuff out. TL;DR It seems like Centurylink continues to allow United Telecom to switch long distance services for their clients, because it generates significant revenue for them. [edit] If you don't want this to happen to you, put a lock on your services. It takes two part authentication to change anything after that.