"In China, people are using Litecoin and Bitcoin to circumvent capital controls. OKCoin, Huobi are the biggest exchanges of smart money. Disclaimer: This is not advice, this is the answer. On a question and answer site. The exchange rate of smart money is very volatile. You will experience very brief exposure to those networks. Although Litecoin is popular for speculation in China, Bitcoin gives you and your trading partners the most flexibility, as the United States does not have robust and liquid exchanges for Litecoin, only Bitcoin. You buy smart money on one of the exchanges in China, you send all of it to an exchange in the United States, you sell all of it on that exchange for USD. If it isn't clear, smart money's flexibility comes the fact that it doesn't use banks to work/exist and can be transferred to valid ""addresses"" over the internet. Current regulated, liquid and FDIC insured US exchanges are Coinbase and Circle. Other exchanges use private insurance, such as Bitstamp and Coinsetter. So in the course of 30 minutes you should have converted all of your funds from Yuan back to stable US dollars in a regulated and insured US banking account. To make it usuable for goods and services you need to transfer it out of the exchange to a US bank account. This has very little exposure to the bitcoin or litecoin network. You don't need any friends or mules for this. The Chinese government has issued many many circulars on smart money such as Litecoin and Bitcoin, so it is hard to keep up, because they have made half hearted efforts to prevent banks from directly servicing those networks, while retaining the legality of their operations within China (Party members have been waiting for ways to get their wealth out of the country too without risk of blowback!). So you will need to see what hoops you need to jump through to move your funds to one of those exchanges to begin with. This is faster and only uses one transaction instead of broken up ones and there are no tax consequences for sending money to yourself."