"I have a different perspective. I believe the move to Roth may be beneficial to a select few, but not most, people. I coined the phrase RothMania as I believe that's what's happening. A relatively uninformed move based on fear and not enough analysis. Let's look at a retiree today. A Couple has a $11,400 standard deduction, and 2 exemptions worth $3650 each. This is $18,700 they can withdraw tax free. It would take pretax savings of $467K to support this withdrawal at 4%/yr. The 10% bracket is the next $16,700 of taxable income or another $417K in assets to produce this annual withdrawal. Last, for today, the 15% bracket is the next $51,250 which would require $1.28M to produce. The punchline? Today's retiree (couple) can have over $2.1M in pretax money (this includes pension value if any, of course), and still be in the 15% bracket. If you can't deposit to a Roth, you are in the 28% bracket now or higher. Are you on track to have over $2M in today's dollars at retirement? One point that few mention is there are not just the two endpoints. Today's tax rate vs retirement tax rate. Every year offers a situation where your income may drop. A job loss. A spouse staying home with a new child. A disability. A year back at school. These are the years that you might convert to Roth, just enough to fill your bracket back to your average prior rate. e.g. convert to a taxable income of exactly $137,300, and pay a marginal rate of 25%. I'll be the first to congratulate those who tell me they have a defined benefit pension that will replace their income to such a level, that with their investments, they are retiring at a higher income level than while working. Roth is the answer for them. Roth is great for the 80 yr old woman I help. 10 years ago, I observed her marginal rate to be 15%, and we convert just enough to put her at the top of that bracket, this year $34,000 in taxable income. This helps slow down the effect of her RMDs (required minimum distributions) continuing to rise and potentially put her in the 25% bracket. So, to be clear, I'm not anti-Roth, I'm just in favor of a thorough analysis and avoiding the ""Roth for everyone"" mentality. Edit - I was asked by a financial writer Kay Bell to write on this very topic, and appear on her site in a guest post Roth IRAs and your retirement income. It goes into greater detail than I could offer here. Tell Kay Joe sent you."