"One interesting part of this history that is often forgotten was how absolutely close we came to a universal basic income under Nixon. FAP went through the (Democratic dominated) House without much trouble in late 1969-early 1970. It carried a very decisive margin. Absent a confluence of rather unique circumstances in 1970 (high among them the Cambodian Campaign-for a host of reasons, that created a chill between Nixon and the Senate, from which their relations would never truly recover), it is not at all hard to imagine it being passed. One wonders how welfare policy would have developed with that. Keep in mind: FAP was meant to help both the working poor and working class as well as (really, more than) the underclass-which was part of how Moynihan knew how to appeal to Nixon. Other factors in FAP's downfall include: 1) The domination of the finance committees (these things often were passed down by generation) by strongly conservative Southern Democrats, whose states-being largely still the poorest, the New South was only getting started-would have disproportionately effected by FAP. Largely against their own political interests-unlike the Great Society, FAP would have given recipients direct cash payouts, and would have largely ""gone over their heads"", so to speak. And after the Cambodian Campaign, Nixon could ill afford to alienate them. 2) Nixon's shift in attention in the summer of 1970 to other areas, prominent among them national security and foreign policy. For the former, the violently illegal (to the point where J. Edgar Hoover, no shrinking violet when it came to treating the civil rights of certain US citizens with some flexibility, objected) Huston Plan would be created in the summer of '70. As for the latter, this was when the China initiative was just beginning to take off and Vietnamization getting into high gear following the destruction of the sanctuaries. Absent both of these, Nixon would have his hands full at any rate that autumn with the dual crisis of the Black September and Cienfuegos, right at the moment FAP was in its death throes in front of the aforementioned finance committees. Nixon would take a subsequent conservative turn for the 1970 elections, following a very.. Buchananite/Agnewite strategy, with little to no success, which shaped his 1972 strategy. 3) The strong resistance of the Senate GOP to the measure, especially in the wake of the Great Society. Some proto-libertarians did support the FAP, but intended it to replace the welfare state, as opposed to Nixon wishing to supplement it/reshape it into something more fiscally feasible. The GOP cognoscenti were strongly resistant in general to Nixon's attempts to transform the GOP into something they fundamentally didn't wish to be. (The ultimate symbolism of this was, had Nixon had his way, his VP and eventual successor would have been John Connally, former Texas governor and LBJ's *de facto* right-hand man cum top fixer, who epitomized the kind of conservative Democrat that Nixon wanted to transform the GOP with-into what would have essentially been a Gaullist/Disraeli Tory style party. This was not the same vision the people who dominated the GOP at the local level had in mind, to say the least, and was a contributing factor into why Nixon didn't invest a lot of energy into stumping for the GOP during the '72 landslide-and why the party returned the favor during Watergate.) 4) The resistance of a lot of Senate liberals to anything that would have given Nixon a domestic success, especially after Cambodia and before the '70 midterms. Merely the Clinton Wars in reverse, in a sense-Clinton's triangulation strategy in 1995, after the Democratic slaughter in the midterms of 1994, was ironically patterned off of Nixon's in 1971 following the disappointing results of the 1970 midterms for the GOP. The FAP would be attempted again twice, but it never really had the same chance of passing that it did the first time. As for Cheney and Rumsfeld, I'm not terribly shocked. Both of them belong to the heavily natsec influenced wing of the party that historically hasn't had much attachment to small government style thinking found in the Congressional part of the GOP. They both have a knack for thinking politically, too-Cheney defended Bush Senior's decision to not boot the Ba'athists out of Baghdad in the early 90s, when few in the GOP were. The next decade would dramatically change things as the dominant foreign policy ideology of the part transformed to neoconservatism, the ideology of Democratic intellectuals that came over to the basement in the Reagan years and revolted in '92 against Bush the Elder, who epitomized (along with Snowcroft) the old-style Nixon/Kissinger realist foreign policy school of the party. Cheney knew where his bread was buttered and where the winds were going. (Rumsfeld was also a dove on Vietnam by '71, believe it or not, to the point where it somewhat alienated Nixon and Kissinger. Rumsfeld eventually incurred the wrath of HR Haldeman-*normally*, a very unwise move in the Nixon White House-to the point where he got kicked upstairs to a post in Brussels dealing with NATO. The reason I emphasized *normally* is because this let Rumsfeld escape Watergate completely unscathed. Had that not happened, there's no way he'd have had the clout to pull off the Halloween Massacre in '75, at that youthful age.)"