People that argue for an FTT, whether they know it or not, are directly advocating for savers to have reduced stock market returns, making it even harder to save for retirement. Make no mistake - a financial transactions tax would disproportionately hurt middle class savers the most. In almost every article I see advocating an FTT, the authors have a profound misunderstanding about how financial markets work. They focus on jealousy politics (target the rich!) and dismiss the hugely detrimental effects on the market as obscure academic objections. FFTs impose a DIRECT cost on ALL investors in four major ways: (1) larger bid/ask spreads, (2) higher volatility, (3) reduced capital mobility, and obviously (4) the tax itself. All of these things are BAD for any investor. Advocates for FFT essentially want the stock market to be less efficient. Even investors that make NO trades during the year will see the returns drop on their ETFs, mutual funds, index funds, that they are accumulating for retirement. Why? Institutional funds (Vanguard, Fidelity, etc) churn billions of dollars during the normal course of business handling buy/sell orders, portfolio rebalancing, unit creation/elimination. Increased bid/ask spreads make these transactions more expensive, higher volatility makes them more risky, reduced capital mobility reduces volumes available to trade, and the tax adds to the cost. All of these effects show up as reduced returns on a typical fund. Vanguard put the reduced returns on the order of 1% depending on fund style - in other words, hundreds of thousands of dollars in lost savings compounded over a middle class working career. For a middle class saver, that could mean the difference between retiring at a reasonable age or never being able to retire! But don't take my word on it. [There are an extensive number of studies and statements from both academia and industry on this subject, all saying the same thing.](https://modernmarketsinitiative.org/topics/ftt/) When Vanguard says an FTT will hurt investors, people should listen. Vanguard is perhaps the most consumer friendly investment firm in history, single-handedly responsible for bringing investing costs down near zero. They have done more for middle class investors than virtually any other firm.