I would say you are wrong. I think you're underestimating a good warehouse worker. There is a skill set involved, and many do not have it. Sadly, many people don't know any better than to arrive high, drunk, hung over, late, or not at all on a regular, for starters. Most warehouse workers don't just lift heavy things anymore. In fact, probably the majority never lift anything heavy at all. They run power equipment. Big, expensive, dangerous power equipment that does most of the lifting. Again, not everyone can handle that. One power equipment accident can end up costing the company tens of thousands of dollars. Aside from that, the people performing those jobs are hardly the only employees present. Someone has to check in the trucks, audit the receivers, distribute the work of sorting, coreograph the loading and distribution of product out to the stores, maintain the computer systems, and a thousand other small tasks on a daily basis. I can assure you these positions require a whole lot more skills than the average loom worker in the 1800s was required. Really, I find it scary how much you are devaluing these people. The fact most well-paying warehouses constantly go a few hands short is testiment to the fact good people are not actually a dime a dozen. Edit a word. Ninja Edit: Another thing about this is that you seem to want to believe people had a choice in not developing whatever killer skillset it is you think makes you better than them. The reality is many very intelligent people cannot afford college. They don't have parents willing to give them a dime or a leg up, or their parents simply do not have the dime or the leg up to give them even if they wanted to. They're smart, but had to work during high school to support a portion of their own expenses, and that hurt their grades a bit. Or they were young, idiotic, and had little guidance because their parents were constantly away working their arses off for a pitance to survive on, so they goofed off in high school more than they ought resulting in an inability to qualify for scholarships. Suddenly, they're grown. They have to provide housing, food, and whatever for themselves, so they get crap jobs thinking they'll find a way to parlay that into skills or education when the reality is most employers just want to suck as much out of the employee for the least possible contribution. Any general manager of a large facility will tell you bragging rights on the golf course are to he who spends the least for the most work done. The majority of low skill low pay workers would gladly go back to college if only they could. Even if they can somehow scrape together the cash required - now over $8k a year for tuition, a crappy dorm and a food ticket at state colleges in my state, and books will run you $500 a semester for many majors - there is the issue of time. After working a grueling hopefully full-time job, they'd need to find it in them to stay awake during class and to complete assignments. On top of that, there is the question of timing. Especially in low skill jobs, it is usually required that the employee be available at company pleasure. Try finding a school in your area which has the classes you need times you can attend. Good luck with that. But wait! There are government subsidies! Yeah, good luck with that as well. If you've been working any half-decent job and apply, and are under 25 and your parents also make half-decent wages, you will be lucky to be offered loans. They aren't even low interest loans anymore. Also, god forbid your parents have a little emergency nest egg saved up from years of hard labor in the salt mines. Or - horrors - own a small, crappy, cookie-cutter, not-aging-well tract home free and clear. That'll cost you big in financial assistance from the goverment.