America's economy is a War based economy, you need to understand that and chew on it and admit it to yourself. We are not some happy happy charlie and the chocolate fucking factory economy, we profit from war, human misery and of course really really bad banking practices and exporting inflation as the retarded Indians are going to find out soon, not the Red ones we gave cholera & Small pox to, the ones that think they are our friends and we are going to build F-16s in their land of open defecation and cow piss consumption. Now everything was really great and we were about to get our hands on some really cheap Iraqi oil, but the fucking Taliban we trained and armed to fight the Russians decided they wanted to fight us when we attacked them. Problem was we didn't need M1 Abrahams and F-35s and nuclear subs to fight them. And then the Bloody Iraqis wouldn't quit and it turned out we didn't need M1s, and F-35s and Nuclear subs to fight them. In fact we didn't have anything that made it cost effective to fight a guy with a rocket launcher and a pick up truck and our economy started to fail and we landed up in a depression which we called a recession, but it was a depression and thats why our central bank is still trying to get rid of that shit they sold to raise US $ 2.4 Trillion dollars for the Iraq war. Really bad investment that. Well a reemergent Russia, was like a god send, we could restart the cold war and start making M1s and F-35s and Subs again and have a worthy foe, we would have to scare the shit out of the American people to divert the money to the military, but that would get factories cracking again and corporate lending going again, and NATO would just have to buy our shit up . .right? Turns out it wasn't a God send, the priests were busy diddling the choir boys and the rabbi's selling Palestinian spare parts, and the rest of the godless lot getting confused about the gender and the Russians were actually dead serious, scared the shit out of Ukraine and annex Crimea . . .and we couldn't do shit. North Korea . . .the Fuckers got nuclear missiles and a freaking hydrogen bomb, I mean shit . . .we were just play acting to get the economy booming again and this guy had to start blowing shit up. And Iran they are sure to go next, and then the whole middle east. We gave the Israelis F-35s, even though they can barely fly . .that junk has just taken so long to develop, they ain't never going to figure the code out and make it work. The God damned Missile shield is only good enough for fire crackers and scuds. These guys are lobbing ICBMS and now everybody knows our missile shield is really good to look at but doesn't do much, did you see the Japanese ducking for cover. And the Chinese . .god damn . . You just can't guess what is happening behind those eyes . .they can crash our economy like swatting a fly, yet the sit there and we talk shit day after day after day and the just smile and say some diplomatic shit, they are playing the long game for sure and we have no clue what the fuck it is. I guess we are going to have to pick a fight with Canada soon, everybody else is so edgy and starts wanting to shoot back at us, how the fuck is one supposed to run an economy when the keep threatening to bomb us. At least there is a Wall between the Chinese and US . .not sure who built it. .could have been the Mexicans . . .didn't get the bill, definitely not paying for it.