First of all you inbred nit wit . . . Semitics are a group of languages, which includes Arabic, and the Arabs by far outnumber you, so I can't be anti-Semitic. How the Jews have seemed to take the Phrase Semitic and coin Anti-Semitic to mean a Hatred of Jews seems to me classic Jewish misdirection. You may rest assured I hate no language. Now If you wish to speak about why I think the Jews have been a plague on Mankind through the centuries and always the root cause of strife and conflict, I have many valid arguments to their display of despicable behavior, starting with Palestine and the Apartheid regime, the world looks away from in shame. Right here in America, we have the Jewish control of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury and Banking system, which continuously put us through the Boom and bust cycle, we have Jews infesting the white house and driving Policies that are anti-America and pro Israel and the we can argue the subject for as long as you like. My point here was that the American people have become so blind and docile, that America can be taken to war in Iraq because Israeli intelligence decided that they had WMD and it was a threat to Israel, Syria is also a Threat to Israel and Iran is also a threat to Israel, and so is Afghanistan and of course Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. From the Looks of it Israel and the Jews seem to think a Majority of the Semitic world is out to destroy them, so it would seem actually the pitiful few Jews left over after the Holocaust are actually the Anti-Semites. And most surprising is the fact that the pitiful few Jews actually grew in population during the course of WWII, which would actually quite possibly, with that rate of breeding, make them Rabbits. Thus I would have to plead guilty of being anti-rabbits and thank the lord that Rabbits have lots of natural predators or Jews would grow as big as Kangaroos, but fortunately the British had the foresight to not make Israel in Australia, because while they took a pair of rabbits there in the 1700 hundreds, look at their population now. We would have a serious Jew population explosion on our hands and since they would then be a majority of the Semitic languages, would be forced to neuter the Rabbit population in Australia using biological agents and the few potent ones left we could eat in what could later be called the Big Roast on the Barbie in the biggest act of Antisemitism that never happened. I am afraid, at this point I would like to take the phrase Antisemitism back from you and suggest you use a phrase closer to what you are trying to say . .try AntiJew, AntiZionest, Jew hater As for me, I absolutely hate fucking rabbits.