"No hope for you, my friend. Your life is over. Smile. Not true at all. If there's anything America is all about it's redemption and starting over. In fact, starting over is our middle name: United Starting Over States of America. Ulysses Grant failed once as a farmer and twice as a businessman before he became, well, U.S. Grant, major hero and president. He also graduated near the bottom of his class at West Point -- as did Sen. John McCain from the Naval Academy. John F. Kennedy had basically a C+ average in high school and his daddy weaseled JFK's way into Harvard, and he didn't turn out too badly. Other than the assassination, I mean. The idea that your grades or your former life have much to do with your later life seems logical. But it's also not very accurate. Grades predict very little. Many people who screwed up pretty badly, later became very successful. So, stop even worrying about past grades or your silly DUI. If I were applying, in fact, I'd write my essay about redemption, mentioning the DUI as a life turning point and noting that you no longer drink because of it. Unlike some other college students, ahem ahem ahem. They may be relieved to hear from an older student who has reformed his life, a type of student colleges very much like as opposed to little 18 year old children who get drunk all the time of which they have quite enough, thank you very much. I'd also attack the bad grades from a few years ago problem by enrolling in a local college in some way (perhaps they have an extension program or maybe you have a junior college nearby). Take a group of solidly academic courses (perhaps including business course) and do very well in them. I'd take two or three at a time, giving you time to focus on them deeply. Do what you need to do to do well -- talk to the professor early in the course about the course themes and goals (and so they know who you are), work well ahead of time on all papers and edit, edit, edit them. Study like crazy for every test. Use available review books. Get a tutor if you need one, preferably someone at the college who has taken the class. Talk to others who have taken the class before you for their advice. Also talk to the professor about how best to review for each test -- meet with them a week before the test to ""go over"" your questions. A good approach is for you to say that you think ""such and such"" are the main themes so you'll be studying them for the test. Few professors can risk correcting you if those are not the main themes. This can be immensely helpful to you in getting your focused on what you need to study (meaning what they plan to ask about on the test). As a former teacher, I always corrected students who misunderstood major course themes or were focusing on trivia rather than larger issues and problems. This also sends the message that you are a hard worker, likely giving you some benefit of the doubt (""89? Oh, heck, give him an A-""). With a few tough courses with good grades behind you, you have a much stronger record to apply with. And this shows you are serious since you went out of your way to take these courses. Broader your view of ""top tier"" schools as many schools that are not in the Top Ten silliness will offer programs that are just as good. Then research your ""top tier"" schools to find out what kind of student they're looking for. Do they want someone who has done something different? Someone who took some time off (like you!) to travel and work? Emphasize this in your application. Emphasize your extra effort to take courses, your job, your maturity and experience. Colleges love that. Whatever kind of application essay you write, make it about your life and how it's shaped you, your outlook and your efforts. And make sure it's carefully edited -- not mistakes, no bad grammar, no spelling mistakes, etc. Perfect. Get and English teacher or someone you trust to advise you on it. No, of course you are not wasting your time. Just make every reasonable effort to make schools want to accept you, and every reasonable effort to prepare well for more college. That is, after all, all you can really do. Then whatever happens work hard and do your best."