"That's incredible! I'm a second-year college student taking Macro-Economics class, a lot of these technical things are all news to me. Thank you for the wealth of information! 1) That's an interesting thought. Does that basically translate to ""less tax on poor/wealthy (since there are a lot more of them in numbers) to promote entrepreneurship? 2) Someone pointed that very thing out. Rich using money to grow their own wealth. But wouldn't that mean as a byproduct, jobs will be made? I probably made another dangerous assumption here. 3) I don't think I understand this one at all. What is compensation? Will you rephrase it for me? 4) I hear that ""effective,"" tax rate can be very misleading to the general public. (I learned how to calculate the average tax rate a few weeks ago and understood what the folks were talking about!) I did hear from my professor and the educational videos he had shown us that the capital tax is one of the highest among the other OECD nations. My question for that would be, why can't we just close loop-holes instead of choosing to slash capital tax? I feel like the majority will be more than okay with closing the loopholes. 5) I think citizens of the country aligning with the county's companies without asking questions is a terrible, and a dangerous idea. (Asian Depression in the mid 90's really showcased it for me, since our family was practically evicted from Korea) Major conglomerates held all the power and the federal government was really just a puppet. I think it's in each company's best interest to further their own agenda, and that agenda usually means bad for the majority. Let me know if I'm way off base here but ""one person's spending is another's income."" So using that logic, the company can't make money unless I spend money. So we have a conflict of interest here, because as a consumer, I want to get the best deals, be thrifty. Company wants to charge me as much as they can, to maximize profits. Thank you in advance for your time."