"Interesting read. I'm not trying to get political with this post, but it's something that I found genuinely interesting while reading this article. My dad is an accountant for a large corporation and described tax law as ""15% white, 15% black, and 70% gray"". I'm sure that Cat isn't the only company that is trying to avoid paying US corporate tax rates—regardless of where it falls on the legality or white/gray/black spectrum. This case may be somewhat of an outlier in that it's pretty clear there was some shady tax avoidance and the tax sum is large ($2Bn). Yet, I couldn't help but feel that the amount of government intervention, lawyer/court fees, whistle-blower payout, not to mention company productivity loss from the avoidance, cleanup, etc. puts a damper on the expected value of this case for the general American citizen or tax-payer. Which leads me to my point. There was some talk recently about the corporate tax rate being dropped down to 15%. I'm someone who generally leans left on issues, but are there legitimate benefits to this? It seems that large corporations simply employ huge teams of accountants to game the tax code and never end up paying anything close to the 30%. Would reducing the rate eliminate a lot of this tax avoidance behavior and result in more system efficiency, while the government returns roughly equal sums of tax revenue from corporations? It would obviously be beneficial to smaller businesses that can't afford the legal means necessary to pay lower rates as well. From a progressive standpoint, my worry with dropping the rate is that companies would still find ways to simply squeeze more and more profit for the bottom line. It'd be interesting to find a way to leverage reducing the tax rate on large corporations by somehow tying it to increased pay and benefits to workers. I'm not sure of the proper implementation, but letting corporations keep more of their money without the hassle of ""setting up 70 shell companies"" and incentivizing them to re-invest in workers, R&D, etc. makes more sense than companies never paying 30%, and even when caught for illegal acts, being tied up in court for 10 years. I'll end here because I'm beginning to ramble a bit, but the article was interesting for viewing corporate taxation on a system-wide level."