All good points. You're right about my concern, though I like to think of it as that rather than fear, but that's immaterial. I get the destructive destruction. Externalities exist and should be honestly assessed but then the externalities of the interventions should also be considered, such as an incentive to automate or other potentially more destructive technologies as you mentioned. I don't think it's unreasonable to think that ill considered regulation can create a feedback loop of interventions and responses that can severely distort a market. I wish Public Choice theory had a little more traction than it seems to, not as a solution but as a framework for analysis. I suppose my perspective on regulation meant to level the playing field should do just that, focus on the field, not the score. I don't think anyone has enough understanding to be able to say what the score should be, only what they prefer it to be and I think you might appreciate the fallacy of that line of thinking. That's an interesting example indeed. I can see the motivation from the company but what's the burden on the municipal government? Have they taken it upon themselves to collect these bikes from inappropriate places or something or is it just a general quality of life issue involving bikes obstructing movement? Sounds like a classic tragedy of the commons but a lot less disruptive than others I know of. I'll share one that you can go down the rabbit hole on if that sort of thing interests you. Essentially, there is a bay on the Carribean coast of QR, Mexico where there is a town called Akumal. Due to some hurricane damage some time ago, sea grass has been growing there and it has attracted green turtles to an area that one can simply walk into and 'swim with the turtles'. Now, I'm sure I don't need to describe the various effects of overexploitation of that situation and that's exactly what's happening. The problem is that the first 20 meters of shoreline is part of the commons so no privatization can be used to restrict access. Add the conflicting interests of environmentalists, tourists, tour providers, hotels, and the various levels of government all within the context of Mexican politics and you can imagine the mess its created.