"It sounds like a great opportunity, but like any opportunity you need to do your research and give it a thorough evaluation. Although the current owner may be your friend, don't let emotion get in the way of a fair and honest assessment. Some general things you need to consider: Past financial data of the pizza restaurant - if you are going to invest, you want your investment to pay off and to be profitable. What are the historical earnings?If you take management of the pizza restaurant are there things you can do to cut costs/increase profits? Understand the competition that is around the area, does your pizza restaurant have a competitive edge that will enable to succeed in another location? Do you enjoy working there? Would you enjoy working there more than the prospective work you would do as a welder? Finally if you want to invest, what kind of investment structure? What are your rights as a shareholder? What is your ownership stake? What happens in the case of share dilution? Going back to financials, how long do you estimate conservatively that you will be able to make back the principal investment. Now referring to your other question of ""is it worth the risk to give up guaranteed money"".. It is harder and harder for younger people like you and I to depend solely on fixed salary jobs. If you want financial success, you want to build assets for yourself that generates income without you expressly there recording your hours on a time-card. No money is ever guaranteed. There are many risks associated with a person's whose only source of income is from his day job. Finally, you don't necessarily have to put up the investment with your own money and give up school. You could look for other investors or take a loan on the business to open a new store. There's nothing wrong leveraging debt - it will help you save tax money. Anyways I'm glad you've found this opportunity. Remember to always think big but be smart about it too! P.S. If you want to pm me any specifics for me to look at in terms of financials or legal stuff I'd be more than happy to help a brother out."