Startup costs are amazingly high. Running fiber to individual houses takes a lot of labor. Another problem you don't hear too much about is the legal side. I don't mean carriers fighting cities, etc. I'm a lawyer and there's a complex legal side when it comes to easements. An easement is a way to allow others access to your real property, or land. This is a complex subject, so I'll skim it a little. You can have an easement for a variety of reasons, one of them would be utilities. The gas, water and electric companies usually have an easement to fix/repair on a property. So if a storm knocks over a power pole, they can go onto the property to fix it without trespassing or needing special permission. You can also have an easement if, for example, you own a piece of land that is blocked by another piece of land from access to a road. You can have an easement granting you a driveway across the land that blocks you. There are many more examples and lots and lots of rules for easements, but you get the picture. When you set up a big fiber network, you are going to need easements to run it around and to be able to go onto properties to fix it. This is complex, takes a long time, money is often exchanged for easements, and they have to be recorded with the county. This takes a lot of time and money. That's not all. You usually have to go through permitting with the city and then you have to figure out where to run it. Can you use utility poles? Maybe the existing poles won't work and you'll have to install new ones. If you want to underground it, you're going to have to do all the permitting and easements, then you're going to have to look into shutting down streets to work, you're going to have to find all the underground sewer, water, gas, and other utility lines so you don't accidentally cut into them, there will be environmental regulations, and you're going to have to resurface/restore where you were digging. And I've probably left a few things out. This stuff is complex, expensive and takes a long time. A company like Google can afford it because they can lay out cash for a few years before it starts generating revenue. Personally, I think the federal government needs to get involved. The feds were involved in electrification and running telephone service. I don't think this is any different. It also would help the federal government, as well as state, county and city governments - they all need communication networks, too. I would build an agency like the old WPA or CCC to deploy fiber across America. It would take several years, but this is one of those government projects that would produce results, just like how electrification did.