"> If you have five to eight dictators fighting at once You will quickly see these 5 to 8 dictators mutually come to the conclusion that it is not in their interests to ""fight it out"", but rather, support each other and prevent new-comers. Or, you will see mergers as we saw in the accounting and banking fields. You both knock out a competitor AND increase your market share in the process. This becomes similar to a government-sanctioned monopoly, but instead of one firm, you have 6 or 8, each recognizing that they've got a great position as gatekeepers and rent-seekers. This is similar to how the healthcare and insurance companies really don't DO very much except extract money. They over-bill the hospitals, then over-bill the customers, and profit the huge margins. Or how the government used to do student loans, then instead outsourced to the big banks to do it. Then recently they determined that hte big banks were taking tens of billions of dollars in profit for ""running"" the program. That's tens of billions of dollars of wealth simply extracted from our taxes. This is why the government under Obama decided to kick out the banker middle-men and simply issue the exact same loans with the exact same rules,a ll by themselves. Why outsource to a middleman when you can run the exact same program with tons less overhead? It's also the reason single-payer healthcare is tons more efficient over the current model, and would save our country trillions over the looong term. Not to mention, the democratization of currency you envision is truly ephemeral, a mirage. The firms the government chooses as suited enough to pay taxes basically means the government still has the final decision on which ""currency"" (bonds) to accept. What if the government then decides only ONE corp is suited to do this job, or only two? Then it's functionally no different than teh current situation. Right now, the world buys USD bonds at extremely low interest rates, and this helps fund our government and keeps our nations costs very low. Under your scenario, the government is saying ""We accept bonds from X, Y, or Z"", and so instead the world runs out to buy XYZ bonds at extremely low interest rates. Instead of giving our country the funding it needs, we're actually giving XYZ corps the low interest rates. This is basically the same downfall of letting the big banks run the student loan program: it gives the firms more power, the government less power, costs us more tax dollars, and gives those firms an undeserved higher place on the food chain. I quite simply disagree with it. I would rather our government print the bonds themselves and take the benefit of the low cost of borrowing, rather than giving XYZ corps more favorable funding to continue world-wide expansion and takeover. Furthermore, if XYZ corps are approved by the government for paying tax dollars, what do we do in the case of a fiscal emergency such as 2007 when AIG basically went bankrupt in a period of only a few months? Of course this would be SURE to happen only right AFTER tax day, AFTER the entire country buys AIG bonds, pays the government in AIG bonds, and the executives of AIG pay themselves HUGE bonuses. Then they go bankrupt, and the government is left holding ALL the IOU's which are worthless. And of course, traders, hedgers, goldman sachs, etc, would all know AIG was about to get fucked and would make trillions while the US Gov received all tax receipts in worthless paper. The fact is, with the speed big companies can fall down under the weight of their own contradictions, the danger is all too real that a full year of tax receipts simply disappears."