>This whole article sounds like it was paid off by cable and internet providers. Don’t get me wrong these web companies definitely need to be hammered down on specially after what happened this past election. >However this article is trying to make a point that getting rid of net neutrality is the right thing to do. Net neutrality is the rule that prevents cable/internet companies to charge you more for access to certain websites than others, in a similar way they do with television today. The same cable/internet companies that lobbied and won the right to sell your browsing history the same way these web companies do. >And if we talk about monopolies we should also be looking at AT&T, Comcast, Verizon and various other companies that have a strong hold on today’s consumers. To me, the article says nothing that you assert.. >The FCC is right to revisit the illogical “public utility” rules imposed on broadband companies by former FCC Chair Tom Wheeler, who seemed eager to do The Web Trust’s bidding. Unlike search or social media, connectivity is an innovative, fluid market with competing wired and wireless options that have continually improved consumers’ ability to reach anybody or anything, anywhere. We now have not just companies, but whole systems and technologies like cable, fiber, satellite, cellular, DSL and other options that compete for your attention. The FCC is right to reject obsolete Ma Bell era regulation that denies this basic fact. >But the more pressing question is: **What obligations should be imposed on the Web Trust giants as they embed themselves ever further into our lives?** How do we assure ourselves that the “users” they connect us to are human or that the search results they feed us are based on merit — not pay for play (or worse, algorithmic racism). >It’s time to consider whether to break up the Google search and advertising functions, or to deny safe harbors that protect the tech platforms if they turn a blind eye to sex trafficking or commercial piracy. **We need a new privacy Bill of Rights to demystify the algorithms that track and tag you and shape your on-line experience.** >In these partisan times, it speaks to how dangerous The Web Trust has become that both Republicans and Democrats are calling for action and reform. *If Congress and the administration want to preserve a truly open internet, they need to become the trustbusters for a new, digital generation.* Actually, no where in the article does it express anything about opposition to NN. The article is about breaking a Monopoly, which does not correlate to opposing NN. --See highlighted line. This article is not anti-NN, this article is anti-monopoly! You must be with Google.