"hey numb nuts, I've been working with blockchain implementation since before you became an armchair investor. blockchain technology is an implementation of security by consensus, it can be between 2 people, and 100 million. bitcoin's incentive is the mother of all pyrimid schemes,""put value into this, so it has value, so you can get value out of it"". It was never suppose to be industrialized in the way it has been, and it's become an amoral waste of resources. further evidence can be found in the fact that bitcoin HAD no value except as a currency before people started hacking contracts and the like into it. Etherium is admirable in that it actually has some kind of intent of value built into it, but it's simply not good enough for high demand applications. in a private chain, mining doesn't operate with an increasing cost, it *could* be done by a single system, which is good enough for an internal chain. The security comes from the immutability of the chain that is generated which is what everyone subscribed to the chain gains. once something is added, no amount of hacking a centralized system could change the confirmed blocks, an attacker might be able to add a bunch of new blocks, but you could (with consensus) roll back the entire chain. as a simple example: a company has several partners who it coordinates exchange rates with. they set the value and they want to share that with their partners, while keeping an entirely tamper proof history of the set values. they start the chain, and allow their partners to subscribe to it. they can then set their system to add a block every hour, which contains the set values. now every partner is keeping a consensus based record of what the trading values were when. If for whatever reason an audit was required (ie say they suspect someone was trading higher/lower than they should have) they can audit the chain and see exactly what everyone agreed would be the price at the time the exchanges were made. if a partner messed with his chain to cover whatever shadiness he would be involved in, the other's would refute it. It would be exceptionally hard for any single bad actor to alter all the chains. the incentive in a private chain is rolled into business incentives for record keeping. They gain value by keeping certain types of records secure in this manor, therefore it is worth it to do, they don't need a literal payout to keep their own records secure. this is why companies want to use the blockchain, immutable records, secured by even loose consensus are more secure than a centralized database, but with little to no increase in operation overhead. It then further gains value in that it could lead to distributed & geosafe recorder keeping and management. TLDR: lol you armchair finance guys."