"A ""leveraged/trade program""? What exactly is that? So let me get this straight. You put just 10% of the total amount of what you're trading into an account with Citi (Citi's going to give you 10-1 leverage on your money..why?), and then in 90 days they'll give you your money back and a loan for ten times the amount? Either the heat has gotten to me or this is the craziest thing I've read today. You didn't specify what it is you'd be ""trading"", and if your ""acquaintance"" didn't share that with you either then it sounds beyond suspect -- it sounds like total fraud. I couldn't imagine a scenario whereby Citi would be involved in a scheme like this, whatever ""it"" is. I suspect that your ""friend"" has you opening an account at Citi because it makes the whole scam sound more legitimate by tying to a big bank name. It might be worth your time to actually call Citi (I looked up their number for you. It's 1-800-685-0935) and ask them about this particular idea. When they get done snickering, they'll tell you the same thing everyone else is -- RUN from this. You're very right to suspect that you can't leverage money without encumbering it. What would be the point for someone to essentially give you credit on a 10-to-1 basis and then not encumber the collateral? If you don't know anything about trading and how leverage works then it would be highly inadvisable for you to jump into something that you don't understand. Your ""acquaintance"" may have been sucked into investing their own money, and now they think they're doing you a ""favor"" by telling you about this ""incredible opportunity"". It's how most scams work. They get the suckers to sign up friends and relatives, because they're playing on the trust between those people. Stick to what you know or what someone can give you a clear and reasonable explanation of. And have someone you really know and trust (preferably a friend or family member who is reasonably successful in managing their own finances) to act as a sounding board when things like this come along to help keep you from doing something stupid that you'll really regret. Hope this helps. Good luck!"