Welcome To Shainex Relocation AN ISO 9001:2008 Certified Company SHAINEX PACKERS AND MOVERS is a proud service tax payee Professional Services Provider for Packers and Movers, packing and moving, Domestics Packing Moving, International Packers Movers, International Packing Moving, Car Transportation, Air Cargo, Sea Cargo, Custom Clearance, Warehousing and Insurance Facilities. We also export goods to all worldwide Destinations, we have a lot’s of another exporters export leather Accessories Ready made Garments and Personal Effects as a Baggage, household Items to different Country, International and Domestics. If you interested So Please. Contact us on our Email Shainex Packers and Movers is an ISO certified company and government certified Packers Movers Company. Shainex is a proud service tax payee. Shainex take pride in offering great Packing & Moving Services at reasonable prices. All our employees are well experienced, courteous and careful. We offer personalized service for any kind of relocation requirement whether it is domestic or International and we understand the importance of your belongings. Whether it is office relocation, commercial goods or household items etc, we offer safe packing and moving service. Under the supervision of our expert supervisors, we pack goods depending upon the nature of the item and use appropriate packaging material of best quality such as thermocols, cardboard sheets, gunny bags, plastic bubble sheet, cartons & wooden crates. & Plywood Box The material, which we use in our packing, is of best quality available in Packers Movers Delhi, Packers Movers Noida, Packers Movers Faridabad, Packers Movers Gurgaon, Packers Movers Ghaziabad, Packers Movers Chandigarh, Packers Movers Pune, Movers Packers Mumbai, Packers Movers Ahmadabad, Packers Movers Vadodara, Movers Packers Bangalore, Movers Packers Hyderabad, Movers Packers Chennai and Packers Movers in India. We ensure that all the goods are perfectly packed so that there is no chance of damage during transportation. The moving is with utmost ease and care. The goods are moved without any inconvenience and in a hassle free manner. The understanding of our packers & movers about every aspect of the business creates a facility that provides experienced packing and moving by crews and professionally trained drivers. We relieve you from all your trouble & anxiety by maintaining timely and intact delivery of your consignment, at your doorstep. We pack all your belongings as per the nature of the item and requirement with the help of our professional packing experts. All this leads to safe delivery of our client's goods to the desired destination.