"> Basically, the whole idea of passive/mindless (""set it and forget it"") gains from investments being the path to ""wealth"" has to go bye-bye -- it was never really ""real"" to begin with (unless you ""timed"" the market just right), and the vast majority of the gains were nominal anyway. Couldn't have said it much better. > a lucky generation or two got away with it (sheerly by accident in the timing of their birth, something they really had no input into). While I agree a majority was luck to be born at the right time, Boomers are to blame (IMHO) for the loss of ""guaranteed retirement."" Pensions were one of the greatest things that came out of the industrialization and unionization of the late 19th-mid 20th century and Boomers allowed government to change regulations that permitted corporations to raid pension funds, monkey around with them, and then cry about them being burdensome after they hollowed them out. The vast majority of people are not smart enough to save sufficiently for their future and pensions were the safeguard for that. Boomers let that go for higher immediate take home and, now, will be reliant on SSI and meager savings. > Instead I think one will ALWAYS need to be ""working"" in some manner or another -- actively overseeing ones investments and remaining ""agile"" in response. And of course there is risk involved in that (as if there is really any reason we should expect there NOT to be? Anyone who thinks that way IMO is simply ignorant of the vast scope of human history). For those of us here, that is feasible. However, most people will not have the interest or ability to manage their own investments. Where does this requirement leave them? Still working and, in doing so, keeping those jobs from opening up for new graduates/new people entering the workforce. > The best I think one can do is to TRULY diversify (and that does NOT mean ""mutual funds"") -- to separate your eggs into various ""baskets"", holding some major part in solid (as solid as can be) form (even with the possibility of zero return and/or some ""loss"" -- i.e. owning primary housing clear of debt, some PM's in physical form, etc); having other assets in what are fairly solid ""bets"" (based on demographic trends, company quality, etc); and then some things (several small bets) that are ""long shots"" but potentially high-return things (where just one ""win"" can not only offset a dozen non-performers/losers, but gain you a substantial real profit). I could not agree more. I have done the same thing and used the same argument; even to the point of purchasing a whole life insurance policy. Diversification, in case one or multiple investments tank, is the only way to survive. I have also decided that, for some of my assets, I am just a DCA/DRIP buy and hold guy of 10-20 diversified stocks from different industries. Leave it up to time and compounding over my own ability to time/pick. Anyway, I guess that's the whole answer; there is no right answer. Diversification and continued diligence are key. Good discussing with you. Best of luck."