"Wow.. where to start.. Your ad hominem attack was when you shifted away from the discussion and started questioning me on whether or not I had been around low-skilled workers and even going as far as to give a judgment on if was around average people. The definition is ""(of an argument or reaction) directed against a person rather than the position they are maintaining."" You went away from the topic, and instead directed your argument at me, which has nothing to do with my position on minimum wage. You seek to discredit me as to say my views are invalid because, in your opinion, I haven't had enough experience with low skill workers. It doesn't matter if I have or hadn't, one's experience or lack thereof with low skilled workers doesn't make their position any more wrong or right. This is a textbook example of ad hominem. Your straw man was when you shifted the position to suggest things I didn't say in order to argue against them. The definition is ""an intentionally misrepresented proposition that is set up because it is easier to defeat than an opponent's real argument."" You say I assumed things I never even mentioned, such as your claim that I would say rich people didn't earn their success and that poor people were not at fault for their low achievement. Once again, no where did I suggest this and this suggestion by you strayed away from my argument on paying people a live-able wage. Basically one could say this was brought up by you to argue about something you felt would be easier to defeat. There were clear reasons I threw those fallacies out. You condescendingly tell me I don't know what I'm talking about, yet you don't even get it right and overlook everything that was stated.. smh Your whole response keeps proving my point. Once again, you are so focused on whether I've had experience working with or managing people (nice goal post moving btw), as if that makes your position more qualified (ad hominem again), when the reality is I can have a rational thought about something by reading up on logical and rational positions on this and seeing what the statistics and research say. Oh by the way, I have had multiple economics classes in college, did you? I read up and studied this stuff and aced my tests and papers on it. So now what? Does my collegiate-backed economics understanding now outweigh the fact you just simply hired some low skilled workers? There are many topics out there you and I have no experience with but we can have a well thought out position on them because we talk to experts and read up on the research. Let me restate this again, just because you have more experience with low skill labor does not make you any more qualified over me to have a smart, logical, and rational understanding of the effects of raising the minimum wage. The same with the fact that just because I probably have had more collegiate studies on economics than you, it doesn't mean my position is any more right than yours or someone else's. >You read a study that is incredibly biased and take it to the grave. This gave me a laugh because it's the equivalent of ""your arguments don't agree with mine so clearly your's is the biased one."" Dude, we all are biased and stand for things. You are just as biased as me. I don't have to give equal time to every position out there as if both are equal. It's often a false equivalence to do so anyways. For example the idea that ""we should not raise minimum wage more because poor people are lazy and undeserving"" does not deserve the same consideration as ""inflation has caused the purchasing power of workers on the minimum wage to decrease to levels where they cannot afford to live and thus now must seek out tax-payer backed public assistance programs in order to make ends meet, so a solution would be to raise the minimum wage."" Last, your argument against raising the minimum wage comes down to ""I don't think they deserve it because some people don't work hard."" And my response is, I don't give a shit. If someone works that job, no matter how low-skilled it is, they deserve to be paid at a level that is live-able. Other than that, it's their fault if they don't do a good job and get fired. Have you ever considered why the minimum wage came about in the first place? It was to keep businesses in check because they were taking advantage of people and paying them poor wages. Wages were so low that some would argue they were technically ""slave wages."" Yet as inflation rises and the purchasing power falls, instead of bumping those wages back up, people like you sit there and are like ""Nah, they are lazy and don't deserve it. Trust me. I know a guy that's lazy that works those jobs. He's dumb too and doesn't have a high school diploma."" You argument one again is just attacking their character with no consideration of statistical analysis and the economic effect of a change in the minimum wage. Now to step away from the whole argument, you and I have different values. You don't value people at low-skilled levels, as if their job is almost worthless, yet you need them for your business. Sure, you smile and say hello to the guy that brings you your burger or your coffee, but the reality is you mostly don't care about him. In your mind, if he only makes $7.25 then you have the right to assume that he doesn't work hard and is undeserving of proper pay, unless he's proven it in some way to you. Your mindset is a problem because you are okay with stereotyping people, and then you assume whatever negative traits about them that you can as your justification for it. *I don't give a shit about how many houses have been built in Houston or how many painters your friend brought to Seattle. It's completely irrelevant to all of this."