"> Medicare Part-D is not Trump fault, for, at least, the last 8 years. I never said it was. > Trump wants the national health care system to work, cheaper and better. I never said he didn't. > But, still, you have to be against Trump despite him yet to do anything about this.. I never said I was against him because of his inaction on Medicare Part-D. > ..and not able to do anything because of Democrats and some betraying Republicans. I never said his inability to pass a bill was an issue. > Global Warming, is the exact same thing. Not Trump fault. I never said it was. > The Paris Accords are not fair to the USA.. I never said they were. > Trump is not against anything that reduce pollution and emissions. I never said he was. > So on one hand you say technology will not stop ""global warming"".. That is not what I said. > ..on the other hand you want to use technology to stop ""global warming"". I never said I did. > If global warming is man-made, then technology caused it and technology will solve it. That's just dumb. ""Ice cream made me fat and ice cream will make me skinny again!"" > Trump is against stopping pollution and emissions? I never said he was. > Or, again, you just concentrate on the terrible Paris Accords rejected by Trump? I mentioned them once. You are the one who keeps bringing them back up. Wow, you will toss any claim my direction and totally misrepresent my position in an attempt to defend President Trump. You can not stay on topic to save your life. Let me try using your own discussion tactic to help you. 1) [Did President Trump say he thought Medicare Part-D should use its market share to negotiate drug prices, enter a room with executives from the pharmaceutical industry, and then come out saying he now opposed Medicare doing so](http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/ct-trump-drug-costs-20170202-story.html)? Yes or no? 2) Has President Trump created, championed, or even backed any policy that would require the United States to take active steps to prepare for the upcoming problems caused by global warming? Yes or no?"