"My statement: >If you slowed production, maybe you could prevent wealth from collecting in a few hands so quickly? Wouldn't that be a ""weaker economy"" rather than a ""stronger economy""? Your response: >No one's arguing that. Straw man. What people really want to see is policy reform to give labour better compensation. That's the only option though. In a market economy, capital collects in the hands of a few. It's inevitable because capital is capable of making capital all by itself. If you want to slow that down, then you have to add in more aspects of a planned/socialist economy. Or, you have to slow production so that capital doesn't pool together so quickly. Inadvertently, planned/socialist policies will slow production too. You're obsessed with money. Money is only a form of debt security. At the end of the day, you have to analyze an economy by how it answers a few questions: * What goods and services should be produced and in what quantities? * How should goods and services be produced? That is, by who and with what resources and technologies? * For who should goods and services be produced? That is, who is to enjoy the benefits of the goods and services and how is the total product to be distributed among individuals and groups in the society? According to these three maxims that an economic system must have answers for, the current economic system is doing quite well. Versus any era, the answers that present day has are equal or better. The only era you can claim as superior is this 20 year period immediately after WW2 when the USA became far wealthier than any other nation in the world. That was a ""honeymoon"" period in this economy that had nothing to do with economic policy. That was simply us being rich because every other country became poor. Moreover, after WW2, the USA population was half of what it is today. Same size pie, smaller slices. Pies (aka total amount of resources) don't magically change sizes when populations grow. It was for this very reason that people in the 1500s were desperate to find new land like the Americas; Europe was getting overcrowded."