"> A good cashier is not someone who is better at sliding packages over a scanner. Good cashiers are friendly, engaging, fast, and have a sharp eye for shoplifting. They have good judgment and relate well to their colleagues. They care about the customer's experience. Those are nice qualities, but Wal-Mart feels they are getting enough of those qualities for the price, and let's not delude ourselves into thinking that they are high skill. Anyone could be trained in the basics of watching for theft in less than 2 weeks. > Walmart has chosen to compete solely on price, not on service; therefore, they hire the cheapest cashiers and sacrifice all of the soft skills that make a cashier a pleasurable part of someone's shopping experience. Wal-Mart has realized that these qualities are nice, but not really worth that much extra money. Most people don't want to have a wonderful conversation with their checker, especially if this comes at a much higher cost at the counter. Most people have friends, and even the best shopping experience is taking away from their life. Few of us want to prolong the experience with artificial and feigned conversation with our checker, which feels like a social obligation on most days. We want an accurate total and a swift checkout. When people are trying to get out of the grocery store, they don't search for the line with the friendliest checker. They search for the one who is sliding packages across the scanner like lightning. > are they missing out on an opportunity to build customer loyalty Customer loyalty is overrated. The most loyal customer isn't going to impoverish their family for a really great checker experience, and Wal-Mart knows that. I'm reminded of people complaining that Wal-Mart has manufacturers make a cheaper version of their drills for their customers. Supposedly, this was a dastardly plan to make items disposable, so people would have to buy more. In reality, Wal-Mart just realizes the average guy who buys a drill isn't seriously going to get into woodworking, like he's always saying. He's going to pull it out 2-3 times, after the initial enthusiasm wears off. I thin Wal-Mart pisses people off, because they know what we really are, as opposed to the people we pretend to be. > they're creating a disenchanted workforce incentivized to get back at the company whenever possible Wal-Mart has a pretty good bead on their workforce. They're not losing money. This ""getting back"" is highly theoretical. In reality, they're going to gripe about their job and cycle through a lot of low wage jobs on their way back to Wal-Mart again. I don't know if you've worked with low skill workers before, but there's a reason they are where they are. They're not these noble creatures from Steinbeck novels. I worked at quite a few of these low wage jobs while putting myself through college. These are the people who show up hungover to work. These are the people who work for a few weeks and then suddenly flip out for seemingly no reason at all. These are the people who, when told to perform a task, say, ""No one tells me what to do."" That's what the check is for dummy. That's what a job is. These are the same people who sat in the back of the classroom in school and talked shit about how the teacher was stupid; school was stupid; they didn't need that shit to be successful. They are mostly ignorant and filled with overweaning pride, which they've been told they should have not for accomplishments, but for simply existing. When you've actually been around the poor masses for a while—raised around them as I was as a child—you stop idealizing and objectifying them. They're not all bad workers, but most of them are *bad* at working. These are those soft skills that you were talking about. Wal-Mart raising wages won't make those people good workers. It'll put them out of a job. Wal-Mart only hires those people, because they're a bargain. If they're forced to raise wages tomorrow, most of those people are going to be cycled out and replaced with higher skill workers, like you would prefer. At the very least, Wal-Mart would start hiring higher skill workers to replace their lower skill workers. So what problem have you solved? Do the low skill workers now have magically more wages? No. They're low skill and wages are higher. They've been priced out of the market. > But I must note that a good cashier enhances the shopping experience, rather than simply being a human scantron. You obviously come from a different place. I think you'd be shocked by how many of us would like exactly that. Don't be surprised when Wal-Mart moves to rfid tags and get's rid of cashiers altogether."