"No, because: (a) People shift industries as wages adjust (b) people increase their standard of living Let's take (a). As stockbreaker points out, most people in the United States were involved with agriculture at, say, 1800 (I dunno about 1900, but that's possible). Yes, as we mechanized agriculture, we eliminated need for farm workers. Simultaneously, as a factory worker could produce more *stuff*, the wage ratio became more-and-more favorable to move into factories. As a result, we saw massive urbanization; instead of people living in the country, they moved to the city and worked in other types of jobs. In 1700, in, say, England, less than half of the *men* were even literate. Today, we spend over a decade simply educating people. Then let's look at (b). Let's say that you have some company with a couple of software engineers and a couple of business guys that makes huge amounts of money. Google or something. What are they going to *do* with that money? Okay, maybe they don't pull a Bill Gates and just give it away, but seriously, what do they do? Well, one thing they could do is to just live the life they would have anyway and refuse to spend any more money. That's possible, but unlikely; people usually want to work for the things that money can buy, not just money. So they go out and get a Rolex watch (which sends wealth to watch manufacture and marketing people) or a yacht (which sends wealth to boat builders). Both are very pricey items relative to the benefit someone gets, but there's a degree of diminishing returns. The money flows on back. People have been concerned that we'd ""run out of work"" for a long time, as technology improves productivity. They've proposed that we'd have to have an eight hour work week because there simply wouldn't be demand for the extra labor. And if we maintained the kind of standard-of-living that people had a few centuries back, then maybe we would have that eight hour work week. But historically, we've always simply found new things that cost more that soak up more money."