"> Ok hate speech as a crime has to meet very specific criteria. I really hate Nazis, communists, Marxists, anarchists and few more groups. Am I allowed? Do you have a list of ""approved"" people to hate? Or, hate is not allowed at all toward any group, including sworn enemies? > swedish 70 year old lady who said ( i googled the case): ""Muslims burn cars and piss and shit on the streets"" Do you think native Swedish people do that in Sweden? If not, than who burns cars and piss/shit in the streets of Sweden? Did she say she want to, or, call to harm Muslims? Do you see how quickly Sweden became from the most free country in the world, to a country where Swedes are not free to say what's on their mind and not feel free in their own country? > She said ALL muslims pissing and shitting in the streets and set cars on fire... She did not! Don't put words in her mouth! Everyone, including her, know that not all Muslims behave the same. She said ""Muslims burn.."". In other words, she said, she thinks, she believes, and I believe too, that ""Muslims (not all) do these things, Swedes hardly if ever do these things."" > ""raananh is a liar and steals everything he can and tends to shit on his bosses desk"". This is widely spread and you apply for a job in a law firm. They do not hire you because the boss likes his desk clean. Harm was done to you. You are pissed and righteously sue me because it's illegal to spread untruths about you. You really need to study common worldwide law. You are mixing apples and oranges. This is a PERSONAL ATTACK, against one person, and centuries ago, without democracy and modern rights, you could sue someone who wrongly defame you for damages. Even in Muslim worlds. This is not on a group thing. If raananh is a Jew and the Boss says ""Jews are such and such"" and ""therefore raananh is such and such and I will not hire him"", it's still a personal attack. Bottom line: You think like a typical German of today. No! You should be free to hate people, without someone to determine for you first who you are allowed to hate and who are not. Everyone, especially people on the left, hates someone or group of people. Am I right or wrong? You simply don't understand that expressing hate (verbally), if there's a basis for the hate, will make the other group realize their shortcoming. If you cannot criticize people and groups, you will end up in anarchy. If the verbal hate is baseless, trust me, the haters are harming themselves more than they harm the groups they hate."