This is my list of emerging markets so far. - Digital cash (cryptocurrencies) Potential triggers: Financial crisis. If there is an other financial crisis, it will probably be triggered by our banking system again. Consumer confidence will drop heavily. As result, people will search for other methods to keep their money stored (as in the greek banking crisis in 2008, where greek residents mass adopted Bitcoin.) - Alternative fuel Potential trigger: Our oil supply isn’t indefinite/endless. Sooner or later there must be an alternative sort of fuel to keep our on-oil-running-systems available. With the rise of demand in durability, this alternative fuel has to be very nature friendly (unlike diesel/oil/gasoline). Potential alternative: Ethanol. - A better way to store power produced by solar power systems. Why? Need for energy will grow because of the increasing amount of people on earth Cities are getting larger + more advanced. This results in an even bigger There is a rise of intrest in green energy because of the world climate change. Potential trigger: Solar power is one of the most emerging markets at the moment. Unfortunately we are still unable to store 100% of the empowered solarpower. In China only 20% of the electricity created by solar power machines is useable. This is mainly because the power created is way bigger, than the abillity to store and transfer solar power. - Artificial intelligence (robot knowlegde) - An alternative for meat, which tastes just like regular meat - Complete autofunctional busses. Potential trigger: Shortage of busdrivers. Plus the advancements in robot technology will make it possible to put robots in function, on places where there is a shortage of humans. - Biotechnical-healthcare (the interference of robots in our healthsystem) - Alzheimer/Cancer medicine - Legalization of weed Potential trigger: Governance approval - Virtual reality (gaming) Potential trigger: The abillity to make the VR-gear affordable for every consumer. Increasing the amount of games available in VR. - The abillity to print everything with a 3D-printer, to reduce cost/staffexpenses and to increase efficiency - Africa