"It seems like a more commonly recurring issue on Reddit that people are referencing logical fallacies without really understanding them. For reference: ad hominem attacks are personal attacks. They are person specific. You cannot make an ad hominem attack against a group of people, such as the poor. Straw man attacks are when an argument is changed to something that it is not and then beaten down. It skews the topic at hand to something it is not. When I make an assumption, clearly state it, and then ask a question based on it with the words ""if yes"", it is not a straw man by any definition. I was attempting to expand the argument to see how you view the rich vs. poor because the vast majority of arguments in favor of helping the poor come with the caveat that the rich should pay that price. A higher minimum wage is an example of that. Those greedy business owners need to pay it, am I right?? I would suggest that you do not refer to these logical fallacies until you fully understand them. >paint me as some guy that just ""doesn't understand how the real world works."" This is basically the problem with your source, your arguments, and your personal position. You mention that you worked through high school and college. You didn't mention managing people, but even if you did I would be surprised if you managed long-term minimum wage transients. The kind of people who never rise above it. The majority of the workers around you probably were doing much what you did: using the job as a stepping stone. Your source mentions most people are ""willing to work"", yet states that 46% are child care workers and 48% are home care workers. Do you know why? The government will pay relatives who get a simple home health care provider license to care for relatives who are on Medicare. Thus, their grandma requires ""care"" and their daughter or grandchildren provide said care for a fee paid by the government. The US government is literally paying people to take care of their family. It is relatively the same with child-care. It's disgusting. That article is making the argument that they want to work. I don't think taking a part-time job caring for your family denotes a will to work. I build low-income housing. I actually deal with the tenants who do this kind of work on a personal level. You could not convince me that a 26 year old with two kids from two different fathers who on occasion provides ""care"" to their family members has a will to work. I see their daily lives. How does the government even check to see if the care is being provided? Is grandma going to lie? Nope.. I can assume that you don't manage minimum wage employees because it is nearly impossible. Good labor refuses to work at that price. The market is much higher. Depending on the job it is usually double or triple. The cleaning guy at my apartment building makes $12 an hour. I've paid minimum wage. The only people I pay that are day laborers, most of which have serious problems in their lives and even then it usually is more. Hell, I've seen a guy from the neighborhood pay as low as $25 a day to people looking for a fix. You are constantly arguing that I look down on these people. It's not entirely wrong, but it's not about the wage. I am very friendly with the staff at the local McDonalds in one of the ghettos of Houston. The manager is a really nice guy. I asked him why certain positions kept turning over. He complained that it was hard to find people and he kept having employees no-show. This is minimum wage and they can't even show up. Do you really believe that people want to work when simple positions that require no skill cannot be filled? You make it seem as though I am assuming the worst. It's quite the opposite. I am incredibly optimistic and giving, but with many people in the US it doesn't matter. You just don't see it on the day to day. You read a study that is incredibly biased and take it to the grave. There are many, many people in the US who do not want to work. They rely on government subsidies and refuse to improve their own lives. It will always happen, it's just a matter of what the government will try to do about it next. *I forgot to mention. Houston has built more homes in the last 5 years every year. Houston almost built more single-family homes than the entire state of California in the year 2014. Thus, my painter is leaving one of the largest construction markets in the US to go to Seattle because he can't find people to paint a building."