"You said all terrorists are Muslims, which is not true at all because most acts of terror comes from right winged population (most common are the burning down a refugee house and personal attacks on diffrent looking guys) At least in Germany, dont know about other countries but i can not imagine it much different. Cause and effect and quantity? is a terror attack more harmful if more people heard of it ? Effect on who ? I can imagine you talking in public is pretty scary for foreigners. (which is the point of the hate speech topic). Lets not drag the refugee topic in here too because its very complicated. Just for your information im very much in favour of fighting the cause of immigration and helping where it is needed and not letting millions walk thousands of miles to get to safety of to make a living. Funny how your mind works. Criminal immigrants are not accepted in Germany by the way and if they get criminal here they get deported. The crime rate of the refugees is actually a bit lower then the rate of the rest of the population, so not big a problem. (which makes sense if you think about it. It was hard to get here and they dont want to go back). ""Do you think a rightwing would attack Muslims if they did not attack westerners? Do you think rightwing attacks are more than Muslim attacks? Are they even 1% of all attacks and harm?"". THIS IS THE CORE PROBLEM I AM TALKING ABOUT. THIS IS WHY MILLIONS OF GERMANS SLAUGHTERED THE JEWISH POPULATION. THIS IS THE RESULT OF HATE SPEECH AND HARD RIGHT PROPAGANDA. The difference between now and then? Swap jew with muslim! "" the muslims are to blame for the crime rate/ attacking our women / the bad economy. It is exactly the same mindset. People then were no different then people now. They did think they help germany by getting rid of those ""pests"". Most of them did nothing at all and after the war they said they didn't know about any attacks or killings of jews. Needles to say that the actual crime rate if jews in Germany was no different then the non jew crime rate just as it is now with muslims. The overall crime rate rise significantly though since the start of the refugees crisis as a result of massive right wing activity. You said you hate nazis a while back. I don't think you know what a nazi is and sure enough i called you one and you did not deny. My friend i was wrong about you. You are a helpless cause with terrible arguments based on prejudice and hate. I still did enjoy this conversation because it was a) mostly civil and b) gave me a very good look into the mindset of a nazi. You may be happy to here that i realized while researching the topic that the problem of nazis is much bigger then i have thought and i can not ignore it anymore and have to join the fight. Good day to you and may reason catch up to you in your future life."