NOTE: This is my opinion, so please have respect- I am not trying to insult or put down anyone. I merely want to play the devils advocate and contribute to the dialogue in a constructive manner. Thanks. You're better trying to short magazines or the publishing industry. The reason why the music industry fell was because they were disorganized even before iTunes came around. The internet has a fantastic distribution system, I agree. But many of these streaming websites are trying to eat TV and Cable's lunch. Many of the people who under-estimate TV do not realize the amount of money, talent, research, staff and infrastructure needed to produce top-level high-quality shows and programming. It is easy to stream a TV show or movie AFTER it's been already produced and broadcast, but do you really think the internet will give us a Mad Men, LOST, Walking Dead, Game of Thrones? I highly doubt it, and that's a big reason why TV is here to stay. Yes there is talk of Netflix trying to buy the rights to some shows, but it's only in the initial phase and you can be damn sure that TV/Cable is testing the waters on their part too. If they decide that the relationship with Netflix isn't working then they are not obligated to work with Netflix. In this case, Netflix needs TV more than TV needs the Netflix or Hulu. What makes Netflix/Hulu any more right than a Viacom or Comcast? You seem to think a future of Netflix and iTunes is utopia, when in reality it would be an oppressive dystopian closed system with NO competition. At least with TV and Cable, you have networks actively competing with each other- they are literally tripping over themselves working as hard as they can to PLEASE you- the audience. You talk about how a future without TV is a good thing, but you fail to realize that it would actually be a bad thing for American culture. People seem to think that sitting in front of the 20inch computer monitors at a table for one is preferable to a 50 inch LCD screen with dolby surround in the den. I am not surprised because the internet is comprised of people who mainly dwell on the internet, where people who watch TV are probably watching TV right now. On top of that, many people would lose their jobs. Just because Apple or Netflix can distribute shows and movies cheap does not mean that many thousands of people should lose their jobs (especially if the majority of America still prefers to watch programming on their TV's and not locked in their room on a small computer screen with the tinny-sounding computer speakers). This is one of the reasons why we're having an unemployment problem, because these jobs are disappearing by the cold mechanical algorithms of a computer program. Think of the many thousands of jobs that have been lost in the music industry, don't you think college kids would have loved to start their careers at a record label promoting music and encouraging growth? Instead we have MP3's and instant gratification, music is arguably dead (read: 90's music). And if we think a future without TV is utopia, then I have some bad news for you, it isn't. TV is American, we do it best and we should NOT be turning our backs on it. Once we do that, we lose our culture. Who do you think will own the internet in 50 years? I can tell you it won't be the US of A. Think very carefully and be careful what you wish for..