"Yes you tell them. I can say that I pay cash for all my cars and always get cars for lower than the TrueCar low-end. There are basically two steps: go test drive, negotiate fully, leave (unless you are given a mind-blowing offer). This may take you one to many dealerships. It depends on how well you know what car you want and how much a dealership will negotiate. you pick a night that another dealership that specifically has the car you want (or multiple - even better) is open and you go in 30-45 mins before they close. Paying cash is key for this to work. By the time you get to numbers they will be almost closed. Their finance guy might be gone so you will get your salesman and a manager. I will use my last car as an example. Toyota Highlander 2015 with MSRB 32,995. TrueCar at 29,795 with a good deal at 29,400. I simply talked to my sales guy said I would like to walk out with the car tonight. I have already talked to XYZ dealership and they offered me 28,500 - which is already below TrueCar low price. I asked for $27,900. Boom 10 minutes later car bought at 28,100. Cash is king. The sales guy and manager will bite the bullet on profit for ease of sale. Going in late is the key to using the cash. You don't have the finance guys jumping in and you have less people to move through. Also they know they have limited time to deal and if you walk off the lot there is less than 10% chance of you coming back - they want to close. They are making minimal profit but doing minimal work. With cash your sales guy is on your side because you are basically throwing him a couple hundred dollars at the end of a shift (where most would just be sitting around watching TV). Some other tips: be fair. If they would have said 28,300 is our lowest that we can go and that's it. I probably would have still got the car. Dealerships will tell you their lowest price if you are close and you are still below it. since they didn't show me their lowest price I didn't budge much but still budged a bit to show good sport. They brought their invoice number out to show that at 28,100 that they were going to lose $1500 on the car. I made the manager laugh because my response was to bring up KBB and show the used car price for the car, which was minus $2000. So I just said, ""Well you lost $1500 but I lose $2000 driving this off the lot."" I then went back to $27,850 to meet in the middle of ""losing"" money. This actually closed the deal. Anyway don't ever believe any piece of paper they show you with numbers. These dealerships get monthly bonuses on sales and that is a lot of their profit past selling your trade-in. If you actually value your money you would never be trading in a car to a dealer so if you are paying cash, sell your own car or at least take it to a place like CarMax which I don't endorse but better than dealer."