"> Why should I have to pay someone more to do a shittier job just because they're in a members only club? Uh, you might not have to pay more, since many employers can just take a modest hit to their profit margin to treat their workers better than cattle. And, given the puny amounts they're paying their workers to begin with, I doubt your wallet will scream in pain if prices inch up a tiny bit to pay these plebes so they may live lives of regular poverty, instead of grinding poverty. Getting beyond the liquid bullshit your sentence has been marinated in, I'll assume you're merely asking why you should have to pay someone more to do the same job. Essentially, the answer lies in the collusive power employers usually have to conspire to lower wages, because there are always fewer, usually far fewer, employers in any industry than there are employees. So the employers are always in an ""exclusive, members-only club."" The examples of employers combining to lower wages and salaries are so numerous that it's an embarrassment of riches as to which to choose, but I'll pick the refusal of major-league baseball to sign free agents in 1979, just to teach the players a lesson. This ended Rod Carew's career, among other things, even though the owners were later punished in court, so it does not please me. In some industries, unions are unnecessary - medicine and law come to mind - but these workers still have wage-hiking and incompetence protecting mechanisms: consider the AMA's efforts to close teaching hospitals and limit doctor supply, or the seeming inability of state bar associations to investigate anything less than the grossest incompetence of their members. It's just that the AMA and the bar association are not called ""unions."" But back to the issue of Walmart unionization: unions, though prone to excess when they are too strong, have been the only means of leveling the playing field between ownership and employees in ways that have made life livable for all of us today. Want an example? The 40-hour week, which would never have become customary, let alone been given legal force, if it were up to the employers and the free-market fairy with her magical market pixie dust. Today, employees in industries never unionized enjoy the benefits of overtime pay, decent working conditions, Saturdays off, and healthcare, such as it is, thanks to union representatives who were beaten by Pinkerton thugs, and then returned to be beaten so many times that the bosses finally gave in and made America a decent place to live for those who were labor, and not just capital. It has been proven over and over again throughout history that, given the chance, the wealthy will treat the rest of us like s-h-i-t unless we occasionally fight back collectively. If labor becomes cheaper under the free market, employers will eventually attempt to pay workers only enough to reproduce, unless there are so many workers already that this is unnecessary, and nothing more. Knowing what societies are like when this occurs - think 19th-century industrial Europe or modern Venezuela - I'm not eager to live in such a society. When workers are treated like dirt, you usually end up paying more anyway, in home security systems, public safety costs, and salaries for corpse-removal crews to keep the city streets clean. TLDR: Fuck you, you ignorant fuck."