">> ..but we need to start getting over number three. > >I strongly disagree. It shows Republicans will undermine the spirit of the system and the will of the people to serve their own ends. When a group shows they will exploit anything they can to take advantage of you, you do not work with them. > Mitch McConnell was *in the Senate* for the Bork nomination. The year before Antonio Scalia had been confirmed 98-0, as had ever been the case.. from McConnell's POV, that's where the amorphous ""spirit of the system"" was broken. And low and behold, when he came to power, he didn't work with them. Your sentiment is almost literally exactly what got us in this shithole. If turnabout is fair play, this *never ends*. >> Besides that, it's completely extraneous to the topic at hand.. > >It is not. The topic at hand is healthcare, not ""things liberals are (righteously) pissed about"". > >Question for you: how many times do you think Democrats should reach across the aisle only to be either rebuffed, insulted, misrepresented in the media, or taken advantage of before you would support a hard line like mine above? As many times as it takes to find someone on the other side to work with to actually accomplish anything. If this big repeal bill fails, that's a start. ""The republicans"" will do a lot of whining and shit throwing, but the reality is it will have happened because a handful of Republicans prioritized actually helping the people in their states over party rhetoric and desparation for a ""win"". McConnel's ""shoring up"" talk could lead to a half-decent outcome.. at the very least it'd be a change in the optics. No GOP senator who failed to Repeal is going to want to talk about health care at all come re-election time, so they have a bit of political cover to quietly give ground in terms of the structure of the shoring up. Or maybe not. But we have to allow for the possibility. The tea party was born out of people on the right taking a Hard Line, and the actual work of government has suffered immeasurably for it. Deeper trenches just lead to a longer war."