"Disclaimer: I work in trading as an analyst for a hedge fund, not ibanking. Take everything with a grain of salt. >Pretty much, I'm a student at UCSB who has recently become interested in pursuing I-Banking. Why? >As it looks, I currently don't have an internship lined up for this summer Get something. Or do something interesting like surf the barrier reef for the summer. I was working with the principals recently on hiring (i.e. had to screen resumes / do the first round interviews) for an entry-level position and recent grads without any experience were an automatic no. People with interesting experience (or cool thesis) sometimes got an interview if only because it's interesting and novel. Other places may disagree or have different philosophies but I can't imagine this is totally dissimilar. >If I can't find an analyst position in the next few weeks, I plan on working my ass off over summer reading and researching what it means to be an I-Banker. Idk, there's really not that much to it. ""Can you use Excel extremely well""; ""do you function well with little sleep""; ""do you understand basic financial modeling"". An ibanking analyst at a money center bank isn't doing hugely sophisticated things. >I'm aware that none of these schools are target schools, but I have heard good things about west coast banking at USC and east coast/south for vandy. Reasonable. Either one will would probably allow you to get your foot in the door. >I love UCSB, I love the people, the atmosphere, my fraternity, and the weather. Why leave? I don't see the upside to doing so. >However, I'm getting to a point in my life where the decisions I make are becoming much more important, and I am willing to sacrifice what I have developed at UCSB for more opportunities to break into Ibanking/PE/hedge funds Why? What's the reason? Money? There's nothing wrong with wanting money, however please understand your motivation for wanting to go into ibanking and make sure it'll make you happy. I work in the hedge fund world (analyst). It's interesting and I personally enjoy it a great deal. That said the majority of the traders I know are constantly talking about quitting and doing something meaningful with life. Do what you *enjoy* and if that happens to be finance, go for it. Your biggest challenge in ibanking is getting in the room. I think networking helps for that, I imagine the internet is full of resources on that. And then surviving once you do - that part always seems the hardest. There's a lot of ex-ibankers out there. My girlfriend was an investment banker for a spell. I asked her and she said ""do interesting things, get good grades, work hard, and learn Excel"". She said that for one of her interviews they pretty much talked about food the whole time and partying in France. So go figure."