I was doing some thinking about this a while back, and it makes absolute perfect sense for Amazon to buy UPS with issued shares. First off, Amazon's stock is overpriced in every form of the word, which means using issued stocks to buy things is the best way to abuse the current situation. It gives even more validity to their share price. Some examples.. If lets say Amazon issued 1 extra share for every existing share, it would give them 235 billion of purchasing power. If they used this to buy 235 billion worth of utility companies, the stock price cannot really go down below 235 billion in market cap, because they own 235 billion in real, valuable companies. So if a completely worthless company like the South Seas Company issued stock to buy real businesses, they could make validity to their absurd price. If the South Seas Company had a market cap of 500 billion at their high, and issued 1 share per existing share, and bought 250 billion dollars of businesses and assets, they suddenly became a real company and cannot really go under a market cap of 250 billion. Too bad they didn't, and the company went under almost instantly once the scam was found out. By buying UPS, they gain the company at a discount of the discrepancy of Amazon's price and intrinsic value. But the biggest reason to merge with UPS is for their current customers. So with deliveries, Amazon would have to spend the same amount on their route as UPS. They still have to hire a driver for 8 hours a day, they still have to pay for the same amount of gas, and they stop at more or less the same amount. So your expenses are fixed. Any extra package that Amazon would deliver that they wouldn't before, is almost pure profit. The expenses don't change if the truck is 3/4 full, or full. Which means that all of UPS's business would become almost pure profit. They need to buy UPS or Fedex, making a new service is a huge mistake. It's probably just a bargaining chip in negotiation because of these reasons. Also a side note, Amazon should also buy a huge railroad. They have a part in every inch of this country, and to buy its own method of transportation to transport boxes, which is more fuel and time efficient than trucks makes sense. They would also be able to design a lighter weight train designed to just carry boxes. Sending one truck to a warehouse is much more costly than just attaching a light weight train car heading to that warehouse anyways. Just my two cents if I were CEO of Amazon.