It did help her though, she divorced her abusive husband and raised 7 children as a maid. Her eldest daughter, My mother, graduated college, got married, and worked for NIH. Two of her sons went into the Army, another daughter went into the Navy. My parents got divorced due to my fathers alcoholism, i ended up being raised by my grandmother purely due to my mother's illness, an autoimmune illness with no defined cause. My grandmother will be passing along a very expensive house she bought that would likely have been sold years before the gentrification of the area had she not had medicaid to assist with the bills for caring for my mother. Or the monumental amount spent caring for my aunt who went blind and died from cancer. None of this process is possible without the outside help. If there are no programs for people in these situations to take advantage of, then even fewer make it out. This is my point, there are a ton of forces that act upon you and your life, and I see others not be able to scrounge the assistance needed to deal with their situations. I spent some time going to a SOME clinic for my dentist, seeing men and women who had much worse mental disabilities than my depression, and mine was crippling and caused me to never finish college. I have known people trying their hardest to deal with situations as bad or worse than mine, that don't get the right break. I can sympathize with those who wont take their meds, because I've felt what just some antidepressants do to you, numbing you to the point that nothing matters, a cure as bad as the problem, its just other people think it looks better. I want programs to continue to exist, to be the rungs of the ladder for those trying their best to get out, no not all will, but what's the other option right now? Leave them in it? I have yet to see another path that isn't just leaving people in the shit hole that isn't always entirely their fault. It's a big ugly problem that you can only solve piecemeal, and may never be fully solved. Some may fail by circumstance, some may fail by personal failing, but removing the ladders, removing the help wont solve anything.