"> She worked 14 years in security because she has no interest? With at least 98% certainty, her getting a job in Computer Security at Equifax, despite a Musical background, is because she knows someone, or someone at Equifax knows her. Further, she got a fat salary, so why not work in this area despite having no interest in it? Worse: no self respecting real Computer Security experts will work for her. Can you imagine a real expert disagreeing with Susan about technical things? She will get rid of him/her in 2 seconds. Are you surprised to hear that many managers get their jobs just because they know someone or are very good in politics and back stabbing and no other talent? Without a doubt, a high percentage of managers are terrible, clueless about the area they manage and the how to manage people. Try to get rid of a manager who's obviously terrible. **As for me, many people work for me, people I interview and decided to hire. I will NEVER hire a someone with a Music background for an IT position unless they have experience and know the job they are hired for. And even for an entry level IT position, not much experience is required, I will not hire a Music major, because, clearly, their interest is not IT. I will only hire a person who studied IT.** Definitely, a veteran with military background is much more qualified for a security work than someone with a high school or even a bachelor degree in Music or ""Communication"". Finally, to show you how great Susan was at Security, read below what she has to say about Information Security. Then tell me, do you really think she has any talent in that area. [http://archive.is/6M8mg](http://archive.is/6M8mg) > Susan: “There are a lot of things to consider with that. One school of thought says that when you put corporate assets into the cloud, they are more secure because you know exactly what you have there. You have an exact inventory, you know exactly who has access to that data, and how it is controlled."" **This is so dumb and so incorrect and untrue.**"