"I do not agree with your assumption that people fully understand ""standards"". Perhaps without government intervention, an aircraft company may build planes that cost 25% less, but have a 3x more likelihood of crashing. Perhaps the company does not disclose that information about the crash incidence to its buyers. A discount airline may look at this company's planes and decide ""hey, they are 25% cheaper, let's use them"". Maybe they even know that the crash incidence has dropped from ""once per 100 years"" to ""once per 30 years"". Consumers now shop their air fare, and they repeatedly choose the discount airline because that airline can offer seats that are 10% cheaper than the other airlines who are using the more stringently safe planes. The other airlines say ""hey, look what is going on here, we should probably switch suppliers"". They do so - or perhaps the company that they used to buy from now relaxes their standards to ""compete"". Now, instead of a plane crashing every 5 years, one crashes every 2 years. Consumers have no idea that they are flying on planes that have a 3x crash rate than before. The airlines are not going to publicize this information. The aircraft manufacturers are not going to publicize this information either. It's going to be attributed to ""that's just the way things are"". Ultimately, people may stop choosing to fly, putting the industry into a death spiral, but that's a long-term drawback, and something that most short-term thinkers - which includes everyone in both the airline and manufacturer industry - will ignore. This is the problem with free-market libertarianism - it assumes that everyone has perfect information, and that people are capable of making reasonable choices between long and short term impacts. It also falls victim to the prisoner's dilemma because there is no coordination between actors - everyone chooses the path they believe to be most beneficial *to them and them alone*. Regulation levels the playing field in a way that benefits the entire system, and solves the problem of people being unable to process the impact of ""standards"" that have no immediate visibility. Here is a great example of how ""no standards"" work. http://nypost.com/2017/02/13/parents-recall-day-son-was-decapitated-on-water-slide/"