>lol wut? Vice is a media company, not a broadcasting company. HBO charges premium prices to access HBO not Vice. False. You apparently don't know about their other channels. >[Vice Media LLC is a North American digital media and **broadcasting company**.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vice_Media) lol. >If you agree with me then why are you defending Vice here so much? Every article by them is shallow like this one and at that with a very noticeable liberal bias. This comment thread literally started on me criticizing their graphics in this story. If you will recall, the point of contention you had with me is that I said that only some of their quality is dubious. You insisted all of it was. So, I pointed out that you don't seem like you're in the position to really know, since you clearly avoid their content. During this whole excursion in the discussion, I have repeatedly acknowledged their faults, culminating in criticizing the author's credibility. I'm hardly a Vice shill; I just see shades of grey where you see nothing but black. >How exactly is that a flaw in my logic? I've seen enough from Vice to know its content is crap so why would I bother to read it? Because your sampling is very limited, it's an example of an informal logical fallacy called a sweeping generalization. There is also a framing/confirmation bias in your logic, because your analysis is subjective (i.e. Vice, the subject, is crap because I read a couple articles from the subject) versus my analysis which is objective (i.e. Vice can produce some good quality content, but objectively this content is not an example of it). >More like the reality is you are making a grand assumption here on my end. I'ved watched their documentaries that aired in the 90's, and read various articles and watch various Youtube video's from them. They use to do high quality work, but now its crap. So, your claim to wide exposure is that you saw some documentaries made over 20 years ago, which were produced before they were acquired in 1999 and Co-founder Gavin McInnes was forced out over creative difference? Oh, and you've seen some YouTube videos, I didn't realize I was talking to such an expert. Much expert! Such impressed! Many experienced! Wowz!