*What* big picture? If you cannot tell the massive drain on an organization simply by looking, you are blind. How do companies make money? Income producers. Who are the income producers? There are three classes: People who assemble a product, people who charge billable hours, and people who make sales of more product and/or hours. That's it. Those are the only people who make money. If you make a product, you may absolutely require a packaging and shipping department to bring your product to market, but those people will not ever make you more product to sell or bring in more sales, so you run that department as lean as you can. How lean that is depends entirely on how you feel about business. (Personally, I think it's just as important to be able to enjoy the job as it is to make money, but that's neither here nor there.) Likewise maintenance, likewise IT, likewise accounting, marketing (although they'll never admit it), QC, legal, etc, etc, etc. The only -ONLY- function of management is to organize operations and deal with problems. The old PODS-C (Plan, Organize, Direct, Staff and Control(Finance)) falls entirely into organizing or dealing with problems. Management is there to empower people to do their jobs -and allow them to not deal with crap that is *not* their job- through proper organization and problem resolution. Just like shipping and maintenance and IT, you run your management staff as lean as possible while still accomplishing the goals of 1) organization to empower employees to do their jobs and 2) problem resolution. That's it. Once you get that done you don't need any more managers, ever, until you're not able to keep up with 1&2. So what's the purpose of middle management? They deal with fundamental problems, but they have no authority to resolve them. You are paying an entire class of employee to pass the buck up to Higher and wait, hoping that a decision will eventually come back down. Sometimes they are necessary to accomplish the goals of the organization (ie: during growth periods.) But they are ALWAYS a drain, and would always be better off replaced by experienced and motivated senior line employees with the authority to make reasonable decisions on the spot.