Let's say I am able to pass the level 1 CFA exam, would this allow me to pursue a career within the finance world without needing to look into a second bachelor's in finance or an MBA-finance? I know this is a long road ahead and one that will be full of difficult times. Yeah, my focus was school counseling. So this would allow me to graduate and look at a private practice license after I meet the hour requirements or give me the opportunity to become a school counselor as soon as I graduate. These positions don't pay the most but they are at least something. I live in a rural area currently but would be looking to relocate to Denver upon graduation. If I stopped the MS degree then I would only have my BA in Psychology to fall back on until taking and passing the CFA. I'm not sure I could make as much with that degree while I attempt to transition careers. As far as the emotionally taxing aspect, working with children who come from broken homes all day, every day is extremely exhausting mentally and for someone like me it is difficult to leave work at work in this line. I become emotionally invested in the outcome of my work and have a hard time disconnecting and not caring when I am on my time. The main reason I am looking at switching into this type of career isn't based around the earning potential. Although this is an added benefit, the greatest reasoning is because a) this helping profession has left me burned out and I want to continue to help but in a less intimate way and b) my personality and strengths really fit with this type of career. I have had to work hard to develop as a counselor and I still struggle at times. I have a more concrete and factual mind and I process things in a critical and evaluative manner. Ideal for careers that require critical evaluation, behind the scenes work, and a love for working with numbers and data. I'll take a look at the WSO site and ask for some advice on there as well. The largest decision that I will need to make is if finishing the MS is going to be worth the 20k investment for one more year or if I should cut out and focus on developing a career in this field while working full-time and starting to pay off student loans. My student loan debt is unfortunately higher than I would like, but I come from a family of alcoholics, users, and I finished high school while living on friend's couches for the last two years - so it has been a necessary evil. Having to pay on the loans if I were to stop the MS is also a factor but I know there are income-driven repayment plans available that I can take advantage of if my earnings aren't as high as I would like. Thank you again for your time - it is greatly appreciated.