"I'm hazy on this part: > I say, ""Jeez, I'd love to, but I really need all the cash I can get for every deer right now: my kid is out-growing shoes like crazy. Tell you what: if you can write me a promise to pay twelve Loddars in October, I can give that to the shoe-maker."" You groan about the ""interest rate"" but agree. > >Did a lightbulb just go off? **You and I have once again created *Money***. Twelve loddars now exist in the town economy that *have not been printed by the central bank*. Counting all the money trading hands in the village, there are now (a) all the loddars that have ever been printed, *plus* (b) *twelve more* that you have promised to produce. If we switch out of story mode and into real world mode (I'm the apple guy equivalent), you are a bank that just made me a loan? You've given me $10 and charged me $2 interest? And you've gone and spent that promise of $12 on something? Why are you able to spend that promise? I would have thought you'd just not be able to buy anything for now because you're making a short term sacrifice of giving out your stuff and being without it in order to get more from me later than you could have right now. I'm guessing this is something to do with fractional reserve but I was never clear on that. > .. Now, what happens if another wildfire hits your orchard? Those twelve loddars are destroyed, they are gone, the shoe-maker is twelve loddars poorer, without spending it and without anyone else getting twelve loddars richer. Why do I not still owe you $12? My value engine is gone, but wouldn't you keep my debt on the books and still hold me to it? Wouldn't I have to pick myself up, work somewhere else for a wage or make and sell something else, and pay you money I made over time until the $12 (or more with more interest) was paid off? And has any new money really been created if I work for that money, get it from someone else, and then pay it to you? There's no new money there yet that I can see. Seems like you created new money when somebody else agreed to let you buy things with the promise I wrote you. That sounds like new money. But if my orchard is destroyed and for reasons I'm not clear on (see above), the $12 of value I could have gotten out of it is destroyed, but you already spent the new money, how are you out anything? Seems like you're still up $2. I feel like there is either one too many pieces on the board or one too few and I can't get my head around it. I feel like I have one foot still in the ELI5 example and not all the way out in the real world."