"the next phase by Jared Dillian https://www.yahoo.com/news/m/0e417223-3fea-32e4-b74f-be431d78526f/ss_japan-has-entered-the-next.html https://www.forbes.com/sites/jareddillian/2017/07/10/japan-has-entered-the-next-phase-unlimited-money-printing/#1ca7496668a0 one mind boggling question is this good for the economy? 20 september 2012 thursday, manila, ph i want to share this to all the - “brilliant economists” - in this world let's talk on ""qe"" by: raul m. ramos qe is not a cure - it is a stimulant. qe is synthetic - no more, no less. qe is artificial - it cannot and will never hold water. qe is only a temporary relief - not an outright, total solutions. qe is absolutely not a guaranty - not an assurance for recovery or growth. qe is a very good tool - this acts as an oxygen to a dying patients to breathe. qe is now and forever - taking away the oxygen, the patient will going to die. qe is a big balloon - continues to expand, amplify, waiting to explode, to burst. qe will keep you moving today - but not for the rest of your life. qe is quicksand - the more you move the more you get sucked down. qe will bring joy today - (later) it will bring tears, pouring in your eyes that could not stop. qe is worthless - infusing, injecting precious blood, highly precious dollar to a zombie economy (a lifeless economy), an “absolute waste”. qe is brainless - simply do not know what will going to be the consequences to the economy. do not have the idea of what will going to be the final result. qe is only a dream - being over optimistic that one day everything will go back to normal, that at the end of the day the economy will recover and finally would realize growth. qe is just a fantasy - meaning punching the moon, the stars (thinking it will resolve the year 2008 economic meltdown). qe is an investment - yes! a massive investments to a dying economy, (absolutely wrong investments). qe will keep you running - it is like a ticking time bomb. qe is not good for the economy - the government acts (or play) as an investor instead of the businessman. qe is being very kind and generous to businessman, while keeping the country, the state's economy at stake or in jeopardy. qe is putting more money to a moribund business - supporting the company to stay, to exist for the time being. and later on will literally closed shop. qe is killing the mighty, precious dollar - slowly but surely. qe is hide and seek - like suze orman (of cnbc) say's, ""show me the money"". qe is treasure hunting - ultra rich, millionaires, billionaires is keeping it. they hide it. where are those precious dollars? making the economy sick, crippled, dead. qe is a money making machine (printing press) - once the economy becomes frail, weak, all they have to do is just print. qe is putting plenty of money to a basket full of holes - truly very few will benefit and so many will going to suffer. this is inequality. disparity is very disturbing (counter to a good economy). qe is experimental - (trial and error, testing) probability never done before. qe is good at the start (year 2008) - after spending, investing, releasing, trillions and trillions of mighty precious dollars - big companies, millions of jobs were blessed, saved, rescued, erstwhile salvaged. and like magic - america the wealthiest and most powerful country in the universe is now going to act again (today!) to spend, invest, release again (and again and again and again . . .) trillions and trillions of mighty precious dollars for the economy to keep moving, (my God! what an “abnormal cycle of the economy”). qe is a wild guess (absolutely speculative) - before only big businesses, huge companies are at stake. today it is now the whole country is at risk. not yet talking of the whole wide-world (with special mention - to my dearest, my beloved country - the philippines). this is certainly, absolutely contagion, domino effect. no one, not one will ever be spared. qe is very contagious - before only america needs to be saved to be salvaged. today all countries is in distress (suffering), badly needs a rescue. qe is keeping inflation very low - yes! absolutely for today but not for tomorrow. the medicine that they used during the 2008 economic slump is luckily still moving. meaning still working. but once this medicine starts to slowdown and begins to die down. you may call all the saints above. and the (true) inflation you are looking for, searching for will surely and definitely come into your midst. inflation will going to kill us all. qe is a wrong medicine - temporary patch or band.aid qe is phoney - it is just an easy money and definitely not a hard earned (labor generated) money. qe is a gamble - trillion dollars is at stake. if we are lucky the dying person or the economy will live. if we are not lucky the dying person will die, the economy will going to collapsed, and still we have to pay all the “debts” as long as we live. qe is domineering - the economy today is at the mercy of ""qe"". (the economy is captive, hostage by ""qe"") interest rates is a lose-lose situations. keeping it zero. the u.s.a. government will lose trillions and trillions of dollars, that is badly needed. now, raising this rates will surely and definitely starts the u.s.a. markets and precisely the world economy to react, pulling down the unstable economies of the whole world to jeopardy. now, which one would you like to choose? again, which one would you prefer? qe is trial and error - a complex, complicated solutions. healing one part of the body and the other part will swell and burst. qe is evaporation - (using taxpayers money) pension funds, retirement benefits and all entitlements is going to fade, will vanished in thin air. qe are waiters - simply waiting day and night for growth, for recovery. qe is thirstiness - it dries up the u.s.a. treasury. qe is debt - a never ending debt. keep in mind there is no such thing as unlimited debt or debt unlimited. don't be fooled. qe will going to keep you in good sleep - but will wake you up bankrupt. qe is not an answer - it is the culprit. qe is universal - it was copied all over the world (worldwide). qe is an absolute solutions (yes! for all dumb economists) - a 100percent “hopeless, desperate, solutions”. qe to be specific is going back again to the 1930's depression or the great depression part 2 – yes! precisely but with a ""big bang"". qe before is only a staggering risk. today it is now “debt impregnating” - simple as, it keeps on giving birth (by the hour, the minutes, the seconds) and after eight long years the final, the end result is massive “pure debt”. very sorry to say, not growth (and) or definitely not recovery. qe is a dying move - no one, not one ever dared to affirm, to attest, to certify, that this is a “correct solutions”. qe is mad - it will make you crazy because of ""debt"". qe is the only options - yes! absolutely, when your big brains is ""not working"". qe is easing the pain - correct! for a very short period of time, but will going to ""destroy"" the economy in the long (or short) run. qe is history - it will haunt you forever and ever. qe - what more can i say? fb: thegreatdepression.part2@yahoo.com"