Agreed with the CEO that it is cases like this, encouraging people to live beyond their means, that popped the housing bubble. But we can't mention that without also mentioning the, what? Maybe thirty-year drunkenly-stupid profits people were making off the underlying financial tool of packaging sub-prime mortgages together and selling them as securities, and the eventual concomitant derivatives of that foundational, and ultimately; bubble-causing tool. I'd say it was a good model to all the hundreds of thousand of people that profited from it, and the thousands who each individually made hundreds of millions of dollars, and the many people that got out of the bubble on the way down. That being said, and the obvious connotation that from their perspective long-running bubbles, like the specific one mentioned, are in aggregate good for the institutions that use them; then, simply using tools that cause bubbles to burst, isn't in itself bad, and is usually good, for the reasons I stated; on average. The insidiousness that it's also a blog? Wow, very sophiaticated, almost machine-learning sophisticated. I really like this piece from that perspective. I mean, doctor OZ is a sophisticated infomercial, but this is possibly better (nah doctor OZ is a better con). I'm going have to look up the criticism by those two newspaper heads you mentioned. And, yes good publicity, from multiple angles. This is a sophisticated weighted-algorithm.. thing. Finally, you know the negative connotations of this thing also work to it's benefit. It's a formula I've studied in mass-marketing, where you can rely on the law of large numbers; the things that are slightly grotesque increase efficacy. Once you see it you might well be horrified, like when you study Zombardo, Milgram, or Asch. The human in all it's magnificent grotesqueness. The archetypal example; Walt Disneys Mickey Mouse. Seth McFarland ilucidated this fact when he literally pulled the gloves off a similar cartoon-mouse like character. I saw it on a box of fruity pebbles too, it was in Barney Flinstones eyes.