"Haha now there's two of you. I have two twits parrot squawking in my ears in stereo. Okay, so maybe you aren't from the US, in which case I can forgive your confusion and completely circular logic. You must have gone back to Wikipedia or something, because the IS and LM curves are not, in your words, operating without ""control by powerful offices in government."" The IS and LM curve indeed cross at a level that is consistent with an equilibrium between income and expenditure's equilibirium with the money market. But that's just the label slapped on it, it's not determinative as some sort of naturally occurring law of economics in our society. No, these things don't just happen on their own. If what you're inartfully implying were true, then there would be no such thing as an expansionary or contractionary monetary policy. Manipulating and controlling the money supply is the entire reason for the existence of the Federal Reserve! What is wrong with you? Go read a book or something on it, fuck me. The Federal Reserve, by setting interest rates mainly, and by open market operations, and by less frequently changing the reserve requirements which directly controls the MONEY MULTIPLIER (you know, that thing that creates money out of thin air you seem to not be able to understand exists?) is constantly changing AGGREGATE DEMAND in the economy. Aggregate demand is what the ISLM curve is about. It's about the equilibrium between price levels and the level of economic OUTPUT DEMANDED. But not supplied. That's aggregate supply, and the Federal Reserve effects that less. But yes, you've simply expanded the scope of things I could talk about that are fucked up about banks and the Fed in particular, because the Federal Reserve, in manipulating aggregate demand for money, actually is destroying money and the efficient use of money at the same time, because the LM curve in particular really represents the relationship between REAL income and the REAL money supply. Real means not nominal, but in actual purchasing terms. The Fed is manipulating an LM curve that at its base is a piece of logic built on the assumption that what's going into it are real numbers, and yet by definition, the Fed acting to manipulate it makes those numbers not determined by purely market forces, but also by the Fed. That makes them less than real. Basically the Federal Reserve pumps up artificial levels of demand in the economy, which lasts for a bit to generate growth numbers, but in the long term it simply results in inflation and a continually delayed (at least for now) reckoning where the artificial demand (i.e. the government's ability to borrow) cannot be further expanded, and something has to give. This down the road would be a monetary crisis involving the US dollar being knocked off its perch as the world's primary reserve currency, and the yields on Treasuries skyrocketing to the point that the government is either forced to behave or else print so much money to actually cover interest payments on the debt that the flood of money into the economy causes catastrophic inflation. But anyway, my point is that you're making a circular argument, because you're saying that the Fed doesn't interfere in or exert tremendous control over the economy, because there's something that we know shows the given price level of money in an economy called the ISLM curve, falsely implying that everything's fine with money because it's determined by mechanical, natural laws, almost like gravity, when in fact the Federal Reserve's whole purpose is to manipulate the inputs that go into that curve. It reduces interest rates which artificially increases income. It also increases the velocity of money, an input for the LM curve, by increasing nominal economic output, etc. etc. The IS and LM curves are not these things that just sort of happen on their own. This may come as a shock, but the US has a central bank which has as its sole purpose the manipulation of these curves. Its central mandate is control of price levels. Its unspoken mandate is to preserve the status of the big banks on the top of society, which is why the big banks created it in the first place, and why they own all the branches (this is the root fact behind why some people say that the Federal Reserve is in fact not federal and is instead privately owned, which isn't completely literally true, but true enough in the sense that it has a clear conflict of interest between the public good it's supposed to be upholding and the private interests of the banks that own its branches and exert control over the financial system, mainly through the New York branch). But that's not the whole story about the total money supply. There's also the pyramiding effect of the money multiplier. It's as if you're just pretending these things don't exist. It's real, I assure you. Banks create money out of thin air when they extend credit to you. To pay the obligation to them, you use the real money you in fact earned through your own labor, or from some real asset you might have. They get the better end of the deal, and almost all the money in the economy is spawned by this process, this insanely exorbitant privilege they have. And yes, I have a problem with it."