"I agree that retail looks for orderly markets, but orderly markets have really never existed. Really study market history, and you'll see that markets are more orderly today than they ever have been. The stuff that used to take place was just insane and happened before computers--let alone HFT. Let me state that, while it may seem like I'm defending HFT, my algos are actually much longer-term and wouldn't be hurt by any of your proposals. I think many of the HFT guys are no better than those three-card monte sharks who used to fill Times Square. But they're just playing the game. They're not good, but they're also not bad; they're just another segment of players. In orderly markets (up and down), they really do add liquidity. When things go awry as they tend to do in the markets, the HFTs step aside. But don't fool yourself--market makers have always done the exact same thing. And also remember that many markets don't even have market makers; traders provide all liquidity. Here's the thing. Retail investors swarm to the markets when everything is going up and up. They believe they can do no wrong and that prices will go up forever. Then the market gets a bit tougher, retail investors (and most ""pros,"" by the way) start to lose, and then retail investors cry foul. Markets were never intended to be a nice, safe playground for the masses. They were designed for those who dedicate their lives to understanding them. I don't pretend that I can litigate a legal case, operate on someone's brain, or build a bridge. Experts have studied those areas for decades and are quite good at those things. But retail investors have always thought of Wall Street as some sort of ""safe Las Vegas."" In reality, it's survival of the fiercest. I'll say to you what I say to every one of my friend's who wants me to ""show them a few things about trading"": If you aren't going to really commit thousands of hours to understanding the markets, then stay out. Invest money that you don't need for some time in a few good mutual funds. Keep your debt to a minimum. Don't chase quick profits if you don't understand the game."