>We're supplementing their workers' food budgets and medical budgets. That is money that ought to be coming out of Walmart's pocket. They are not forced to work there. It is really their choice. They also have the ability to supplement their own budgets by working more, or at another company. This is a choice, and the safety nets that the taxpayer subsidizes are supporting these choices, and are not a DIRECT support for Walmart. People have free will. If you can't understand this, then we may as well stop the argument right here. >Listen, everybody who doesn't come from money is forced to work. Unless you don't mind living outside without medical care, fresh food or family. If you happen to have poor access to education or failed to achieve for some reason then you're forced to take what you can get. I grew up poor. Government housing, foodstamps, the works. I find it amusing that the majority of people who want to argue about this type of topic with me actually come from a much more well-off situation than me, and then want to make it sound like they know what they are talking about. I never blamed low paying companies for my situation. My parents could have and should have worked harder. And the same goes for many of my poor friends growing up. I see human beings as powerful, amazing things, not victims who are helpless to the whims of others. >If that job doesn't offer a living wage than you'll have to pick up a few extra shifts or another job altogether. This is my point exactly!! It's just reality, folks. I'm in that situation myself right now, but I'm not blaming a business owner for trying to make money themselves. Sometimes you're given a shitty situation, life has dealt you a shitty hand, and you have to find your way out of it. It's hard, but sometimes that's life. >Let's talk about the one that you espouse where high school dropouts get to negotiate with corporations for a living wage and if it doesn't work out that's just fine -- after all nobody is forcing them to take a job. I don't remember saying high school dropouts get to negotiate for a living wage. I'm pretty sure I said I support *legislation* that will *force* these corporations to pay a living wage. Please don't put words in my mouth. >People shouldn't have to work more than 40 hours a week just to put food on the table or pay their medical bills. I agree. I think the government (subsidized by taxpayers, obviously) should provide 100% free medical care to it's citizens. This shouldn't be an issue about a company not paying enough to support an entire family. A greeter at Walmart was never supposed to be able to feed a family of five, sorry, and it's never been that way in the past. Some jobs are not meant to be high paying, and shouldn't be. But I do support universal healthcare, and at least a living wage (enough to support oneself in one's city).