"gatorsrule, First I want to say that I agree with you that the gators rule. Now, on to economics. I will try to address each of your points as best I can. -The lack of ""demand"" is aggregate demand. This includes individual spending, corporate spending, government spending, and exports. Individual spending is down as geerussel pointed out. Whether or not that is a good thing let's reserve for later. Next, corporate spending is at all time lows. The S&P 500 companies have the highest cash on hand ever in history. Nobody is hiring. Bond issues are down. Mergers are down. Capital is being hoarded. Third up, government spending. We all know this is up, but don't rush to add in the fed and bailouts to this number, lets just consider it what the government actually spends into the economy. Lastly, exports are down because the rest of the world is hurting. So, 3 out of the 4 components of aggregate demand are down, and there are those that want the government to stop spending as well, which would make it a straight 4 for 4. -Interest rates. Well, if you know that aggregate demand is down, that tells you everything you need to know about interest rates. If companies were borrowing, hiring, expanding, opening plants, etc. etc. etc., then interest rates would naturally rise due to loans being made to these companies. The fact is that companies are not expanding, and loans are not being made, due to no demand for them. Bank reserves are at an all time high. Nobody is willing to take out a loan to grow their business right now because aggregate demand is down so hard. At the same time the stock market spooked everyone, and on top of it, people are paying down their home mortgages at a record pace. So you have record low demand for loans, and record high supply of capital (money), so, yeah interest rates are at 1%, effectively 0 if you are in a savings account. -Devaluing the currency to boost the exports component of the aggregate demand curve seems like it could work, but since the rest of the world is also hurting who are you going to export to? The corporate sector isn't going to start spending until the consumer is on their feet. The consumer isn't going to start spending until they get jobs. Do you see the chinese finger trap here? The only way out of the riddle is to increase government spending, and history has shown that it works."