"That's false. I'm not morally outraged by anything businesses do because they're not meant to be moral. I don't like it because it doesn't work and this policy won't work. Secondly, trickle down economics is a theory that says benefits for the wealthy will help everyone else. That's in my text books. It's usually in the form of tax cuts but can come in other benefits. It's a safe assumption to assume that tech firms are run by wealthy people. This benefits no one but the wealthy that run firms. ""Unless you want to define any policy that helps business as trickle down."" This is false. The article clearly states this is benefit is being done for the betterment of Idaho's tech hub because it provides so much for the state. What's the difference between that and saying ""we're giving tax breaks to the largest corporations because the provide so much for the state?"" None. Firms save money to ""benefit"" the state, while only benefitting themselves in both scenarios. It benefits Idaho business, which long term will hurt Idaho. Just like supply side economics benefits businesses, but hurts the county long term. Economic benefits are more than taxes and gains. Especially when they're so closely related to jobs/mobility and expenses saved based on reducing mobility and forcing people to stay in the same jobs. ""Help us keep our people here"" help us be able to pay them less to live in a shit state because us having top notch human capital is best for society. It's an identical thought-train as help us be able to pay workers less than minimum wage because us having capital is what's best for society. You are considering the interest of firms for economic benefit, even though long term it won't benefit you. Sounds like the thought train of Reagan and Bush Jr. Who both trashed the economy. It's come in benefits such as eased restrictions, lack of competition and lack punishment for lack of competition, and higher barriers to entry. Who does this benefit for the sake of the ""common man"" (lmao) the wealthy owners of firms with high level employees."