Assuming you're residential and light commercial (maintenance, etc), pedal your wares to local businesses, landlords, churches, etc, but come with information ready to go (rates, services, contact information, payment options). Businesses need people that they can rely on just as much as individuals, and those businesses are made up of individuals that can use you when they need something (I used my office's plumber/HVAC tech when I needed a new main - I knew that they had a good rep because we'd been using them for so long). Also, those businesses can provide you with regular business since they may need regular, scheduled maintenance. You'll need to find the office or building manager. Make sure that your good clients have some extra copies of your card so that they can do some marketing for you. When it comes to plumbing, a lot of people are worried about 1) price, 2) experience & abiltiy, 3) professionalism, 4) warranty. It's not only hard to get this from a phone book or a website, it's hard to trust it. But, when you get the information from one of your friends, it carries weight. So, following that, treat your clients well. Be fair, be clean, be honest. When you've got a problem, take care of it quickly and thoroughly. These will pay you back if you're playing the long game. Keep your guys, your truck, and your work-space clean. Uniforms, or at least shirts, make you look like you've got it together. Also, it provides your clients with a sense of security because they can recognize who you are. Whether you're working on a house or a business, it is likely not *your* house or business, so remember that you a guest. Be courteous, not familial but professional, protect their property by not tracking mud or leaving pipe dope smears on the doors. Look for ways to build your bottom line and help your client at the same time. If you've got to hack up a front yard, offer to include grading and reseeding in your price. It makes the job feel finished, and often it is something that the client doesn't want to be involved in anyway. You don't know anything about grading or seeding? Hook up with a trusted local landscaper that can do it for you, but cover it in your price to keep the client with a single source. Best of luck. Plumbing is not an easy job. It takes a tough person to want to handle other people's sewage.