Modern banking is operated under central banking which is critical for maintaing a stable keynsian economy. Without central banking the economy is prone to the boom and bust cycle typical of early twentieth industrialization. Our money is not backed by 'nothing' it is backed by the faith and credit of the governments issuing them. Private banks don't issue anything. What fractional reserve banking does is say that for ever X amount of dollars you have in your vaults you can make Y amount of loans. This ratio is set by the central bank in what is called the reserve ratio. If the Fed sets the reserve ratio at 10% and they know the US economy has $10 trillion in circulation than $100 trillion dollars is going to eventually emerge through fractional reserve banking. This explains inflation. Of course the central bank could also raise the reserve ratio forcing banks to call in existing loans. This is deflation. Now if you're a bank and have $1 million dollars in the bank, a reserve ratio of 10% means you can make up to $10 million in loans without getting in trouble with the Fed. If the bank makes $10 million in loans and only recuperate $9 million in loans than they fall below the 10% reserve rate ratio and become insolvent, prior to 2008 these banks would go bankrupt, but the Fed has evolved it's roll into either bailing a bank out for it to recover and learn from it's mistakes or to let it go bankrupt. All people's deposits at these banks however are safe up to $250,000 thanks to the FDIC to protect from bank runs typical of the early twentieth century that intensified boom and bust cycles. Please don't bring in the Federal Reserve into this unless you want me to prove how stupid you are even more. I'm poor broke college student with nothing better to do with my time than to win internet arguments right now, you can't win. **Too stupid, didn't read: banks need to make successful loans or they go out of business, they don't create anything out of thin air. They just listen to whatever the central bank tells them what to do.**