This is a super contentious topic but we have to have a floor wage because we don't have a free labor market. In order for the labor market to come up with a fair wage the market must be as close to de-regulated as possible. But we've already seen what happens in an unregulated (or low regulation) market - safety problems, child labor, abysmal wages. Just ready a history book to see how the US clamped down on sweat shops, child labor and the rise of the Unions. No one wants to work like that so we put regulations in place to fix those things. This is why we have safety laws and rules to prevent our employers from stealing wages due to filing a report late or other stupid excuse. So we make the work places safer, and put protections in to make sure people get paid. But now we created a wage floor. Businesses are literally designed to make profit and you make profit by trimming all your expenses as much as necessary. Skilled employees have an easier time negotiating wages and they can band together in unions. But low skilled and unskilled workers don't have this ability so they work for minimum wage. Now regardless of a company's ability to pay their workers $15/hr or not, if you create a wage floor than don't account for yearly COLA/inflation workers get left behind. Why does this matter? There is a strong relationship between crime and poverty. So we decide to create social programs to keep crime down. But as the wage floor is not increased, min wage workers require more government subsidy. Either companies pay their employees enough where full time workers don't qualify for government subsidy or the government/tax payer ends up picking up the tab on behalf of these companies. You can't actually quantify the relationship between min wage and labor because it's not just a labor issue. It impacts crime, health (who has the ability to pay a $30 co pay if you're chronically ill on min wage?), and government social welfare on local,state and federal levels. We can't just demand that unskilled labors get skills so they get more money because that will end up devaluing skilled positions. Right now people argue that skilled positions are devalued when min wage increases. And that's true only if your employer fails to provide a like increase.