"Donbey since you mention your expenses are very low, I'm going to assume that social security will cover your expenses once you qualify for it. Since you have no savings currently the first and most important job for this money is to make sure that you can live comfortably until social security kicks in. Social security could start for you as early as 62 so you need to set aside at least two years worth of money plus another chunk as a safety measure. Also, if you don't have health insurance please look to get a plan through your local ACA exchange as not having health insurance is by far the most common way someone your age ends up bankrupt. Insurance will eat up a good chunk of the money, but will be much cheaper after the first year if you continue to have no income. Now, if your expenses are low enough, you can look to use this money to delay when you start taking social security as long as possible as the longer you delay social security the more money you get. The AARP has a calculator where you can see how much more per year you will get from social security if you delay taking it as long as you can. This is a great way to insure you live as comfortably as possible even if you live to 120. Assuming you are reasonably healthy, this is a very secure and very meaningful way to ""invest"" this windfall. Once you have set aside the money for your expenses, emergencies, health care and delaying social security in a combination of checking and high-yielding savings accounts, yhen it can be in your interest to invest any remaining amount. Common, solid, low-risk investments for a 10+ year time frame would be either: While Glen is correct that it is possible for even the best bond fund to lose money it is rather unlikely that you will end up losing money over a period of 10 years. The nice thing about the bond fund is that most funds (find the right one) don't charge a fee if you need to need to take your money out early. CDs guarantee that you won't lose your money, but if you have to take the money out in an emergency the fees will eat up way more money than a bond fund would normally lose. Also, a good bond fund will generally yield a bit more than a CD. Investing in stock is generally much too risky for this sort of time frame without large savings to back it up."