"Training8m Corporate Technologies Pty Ltd, Australia Australia ABN 48133544297 UK Company Number: 7538482 Maiden Pre-IPO offer from Training8m Corporate Technologies Pty Ltd, Australia!! Unique opportunity for investors! Move to a most profitable and defensive investment! We offer Preferential Allotment / Private Placement of Debt / Equity. Most Profitable offer from The Global Leader!! www.training8m.com Subscription Offer Open: First ever pre-IPO offer from Training8m Australia Group!! Unique opportunity for investors! Move to a most profitable and defensive investment! Preferential Allotment / Private Placement of Debt / Equity to multiple business investors pre IPO from $ 50k to $ 25 Mn for start up venture set up and Capital market Listing on Frankfurt Stock Exchange. We offer Preferential Allotment / Private Placement of Equity to multiple business investors Pre- IPO from $ 50K to $ 25 Mn. Higher investment welcome for this International public issue. Equivalent Debt / Equity / Options / Preference Shares can be discussed. Minority Equity participation can be discussed. We at Training8m Australia are Going Public Soon on Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Status: Approved funding by major Global Private Equity Fund. We are pleased to write that our major funding, raising funds from the equity market listing on Frankfurt Stock Exchange, is approved by major and most reputed Private Equity Group. This is one of the largest upcoming IPO, highly profitable with high ROI. Subscription: Open to Institutional and Retail Investors Pre IPO offer in Debt / Equity / Preference Shares / Options Serious investors only please. We would like to conclude this current deal immediately. We at Training8m, Australia are willing to discuss on the Debt / Equity / Options / preference shares and will be liberal for this transaction, which will be issued to you directly from our fund managers. This is definitely a really profitable and high return investment. Payback period: 1 - 2 years (expected turnover at least $ 2 Bn in 3 years) Start up Stage of business. This investment has very attractive returns. Unique opportunity to associate prior to the IPO on Global Stock Exchanges Location: Head Quartered in Gold Coast, Australia with Global Operating Offices. Set up including Property Investment, Recruitment and Appointment of permanent personnel, Fees for Listing on major Global Stock Exchange, other expenses as needed for the business. Business Models: Training8m Corporate Technologies Pty Ltd, Australia Corporate Training, Marketing, Premium Recruitment Portal, Premium and Moderated Recruitment Social Networking, Training and Development for all industry Verticals, Global Business Solutions. Advanced Lighting Designers Pty Ltd, Australia We offer International Lighting Technologies, Design, Specifications, Software Solutions and High End Information Technology Services to Global Industry sectors. Please do note that we are officially registered in Australia and UK for our Global Business ventures. With appropriate funding for takeovers, mergers and Acquisitions, we will be listing the companies Training8m Corporate Technologies Pty Ltd, and Advanced Lighting Designers Pty Ltd, on major global stock exchanges. The punch line of Advanced Lighting Designers Pty Ltd is “Go Green with Force Green"" in which we will be focussing on Green Energy Worldwide. Please feel free to ask details privately. Offer for limited time and closes on receipt of funds. E- Mails: investors@training8m.com, business@training8m.com Shrikant G. Shete Chairman and Managing Director Training8m, Australia LinkedIn: http://au.linkedin.com/in/shrikantshete +61-400769125 ................Australia Mobiles +61-434415521 ................Australia Mobiles"