"> You are the one using false equivalency No, I am using a rather simple parallel to show that 'consent' is socially created and can exist non-explicitly. Your response is simply to assert your own opinion, that you have not consented to the state, without any reason to take that view seriously. You grew up under the rule of your state, you were educated about the implications of that long before you were expected to start paying taxes, and there is nothing preventing you from leaving the state's jurisdiction at any time. Your opinion that this does *not* indicate consent is irrelevant because the whole rest of society thinks that it does. If arbitrarily asserting that you haven't consented to things *was* an argument, literally anything can be oppressive. I can walk into your home and set up camp in your living room and say ""I didn't consent to this being your house."" All social rules are instantly out the window. Is that how society works? I've jumped through these hoops before. I know how you people try and pull this off. It doesn't work. Your position is not tenable. It's just a series of language tricks that entertains people who haven't thought it all the way through. You're either a charlatan or you've been deceived by one, and I don't really care to learn which. Quoting myself from weeks ago: > > > > I'd like to know how exactly I opt into paying. > > > By choosing to occupy the territory ruled by your state, despite being fully informed about the implications of doing so, and having been made informed well before you had an obligation to start paying. > > That's not an agreement. > Let's say I walk into a shop, say ""I'll have a medium coke please,"" they hand me one, I walk out of the building. Am I stealing? Well, I didn't specifically agree to pay for it, did I? But that argument wouldn't hold much weight in an actual legal dispute, because obviously I understand that when you ask for an item in a shop you're implicitly agreeing to pay for it at some point. > > But what about some less ""obvious"" cases? If a shopowner put a small sign near the entryway that said ""entry fee ten dollars, entering the store constitutes agreement to pay,"" you could reasonably argue this is invalid because you walked into the store without noticing the sign and the practice is quite unusual. But if instead of a shop it were a theater performance you walked into, maybe that argument wouldn't hold up, because you should be expected to understand there's an entry fee at a theater. And maybe if you were from a country that doesn't have theaters and you were thus genuinely unaware of this particular social custom they would make an exception and you'd get away with it. This is the kind of problem a judicial system exists for, to take social context into account. > > The point is, whether something constitutes agreement or not, and thus what are the legal repercussions to your actions, is a matter of opinion, and in this case I don't see any particular reason to think that your opinion about the government ought to overrule that of the rest of society. Your actions are interpreted as indicating consent for the system you're acting in, and this being so if you took the government to court on the charge that it's stealing from you you would obviously lose. So how is it an argument to just say ""but that's not an agreement in my opinion""? That's as irrelevant as me saying ""but I didn't agree to pay for this food I just ate, officer. I just walked in and asked for food and they gave it to me and I ate it. That's not an agreement, in my opinion."" >"