"The public doesn't really need to ""notice"" for inflation to take effect. Inflation happens there's more money relative to things to buy. Most people think that if say we increase the money supply by 2x, everything should get more expensive. But it matters ""where"" the increase in money supply is and to ""whom"" is receiving it. For example, the liquid money supply for US$ increased almost 4 times from 2009 to 2017 via quantitative easing, where the central bank purchased not just short term treasuries, but also longer term bonds. You would think that having 4x the amount of US$ circulating would lead to a lot of inflation on consumer prices. For every $1 that was floating around in 2009, we now have $4, so people should be willing to pay more for a given good, increasing its price. However, the ""new"" money has been primarily used to purchase assets, and drive up their prices. It has not really found its way to into worker pay (or to the general public), as median income for workers has stayed relatively flat in that time frame. So it can be argued that the ""asset"" markets are feeling the effects of ""inflation"" from the increased money supply. Where real estate prices, public stock prices, venture capital investments, etc. have all seen a large increase in their costs to acquire relative to the same asset and opportunity. These assets are acting like a ""sponge"" for the ""new money"" that prevents the effects of its inflationary properties from exiting out into the consumer economy. That is also why central banks across the globe are in a predicament in how to ""stop"" quantitative easing. If they were to shrink the money supply, the inflationary pressures on assets would go down because there's not enough new money to keep raising their prices. Doing it the wrong way would cause housing, stocks, and investment markets to stop growing, because there wouldn't be as much ""new money"" creating demand for those assets. The best way I can illustrate this is with an example: Say you have an economy that consists of an ""Orange Tree"" that produces 10 oranges per year. There are 10 people in this economy that each want 1 orange per year. And there is a circulating money supply of $10. The owner of the Orange Tree hires all 10 people to pick 1 orange for him, and pays them $1 to pick. In this scenario, each person picks 1 orange and gives it to the owner. They then receive $1. They then turn around and purchase one of the oranges from the owner of the tree. Because demand is 10 oranges, and supply is 10 oranges, and the money supply is $10, each orange is priced at $1 and everyone is happy. Now let's say the central bank ""prints"" $100 more dollars. If the central bank gave it to the ""people"" evenly, each person would end up with $11. Now we have 10 people that want 10 oranges and each have $11. So, the price for the oranges would ""inflate"" to $11 per orange. Now let's say instead of giving the extra $100 to the ""people,"" the central bank instead gives it to the ""orange tree owner."" The owner can still pick his 10 oranges with the 10 people (the labor force), and can still charge $1 per orange. As long as oranges are still $1, he doesn't really need to increase the ""wages"" of the orange pickers. So, instead, he invests the $50 into building a bigger house for himself, and then puts the remaining $50 into developing an ""orange picking machine."" The supply of oranges is the same, the demand for oranges is the same, and the supply of money that demands oranges is the same, so each orange will continue to be priced at $1. In this scenario, the supply of money increased by 10x, but the prices of oranges did not inflate. This is because the new money went into assets, not consumer demand. Now play this scenario forward a few years. The orange tree owner now has a machine that picks oranges, so he stops hiring people to pick oranges. Now he has a new house and all the oranges he can eat. Now let's say this economy was replicated 100 times, but here are only 20 houses. So there are 100 ""orange tree owners"" and 1,000 people that get paid to pick oranges and are willing to pay to consume oranges. The central bank hands $100 to each of the 100 orange tree owners. In this case, some of the Orange Tree owners will bid up the price of the houses from $50 to $100. The other Orange Tree Owners may invest in bigger and better ""Orange Tree Picking"" machines. That automation will lower the cost to pick oranges, and increase profits if prices stay the same. Eventually, those owners will be able to bid more than $100 for one of the 20 houses. As this plays out, the price of a house will continue to increase until all orange picking is automated, but no one can afford oranges because they are not needed to pick them anymore. This is a simplified version of what's basically happening on a global scale."