"Most folks would loan out money for the purpose of being re-loaned. Depositing money in the bank, is loaning the bank money who will re-loan it. Buying bond based mutual funds is another way that it could be viewed that people are loaning money for the purpose of the money being re-loaned. The reason why banks always have money available for withdrawal, is because of the reserve. Fractional reserve banking in its simplest explanation, is that banks are allowed to take deposits and loan them out so long as they keep a set reserve. If the reserve rate is 10% (it's really much lower), and somebody deposits $100, then the bank is allowed to loan out $90, keeping $10 as a reserve. Now even with a reserve, a bank does run some risk of the deposits being withdrawn faster than the loans are paid back, this is called a run. What protects banks most from this, is that deposits, withdrawals, loans, and loan repayments, all happen at a fairly steady and predictable rate (short term), so banks are able to judge how many loans they should give out. Even when banks do see their reserve depleting, they have options. The first and most common, is simply getting a loan from another bank. The rule with the reserve, is that banks need to meet it at the end of the day, so banks will loan each other money overnight for the purpose of making up for the slight fluctuations that occur in a normal business day. If you have ever heard the Fed talking about the ""overnight rate"" they are talking about the rate banks loan each other money for the night. Another common way for banks to make up for a deficit in deposits, in a longer term solution,is to sell assets. Fairly rare for a bank to sell actual physical assets, but the loans they hold are assets, and they can sell them to other banks. Most banks will also hold some bonds that are available to sell. The major functions that allow a bank to be profitable would still apply to the OP's idea. The only real difference would be that commercial banks have direct access to the central banks, and the OP's idea would need to have a commercial bank to act as the middle man between the central bank."