"Americans don't actually believe that there are no categories where other countries surpass them. They believe that the unique mix of characteristics the country does have is the best mix available. People who say ""The United States is the best country in the world"" aren't saying that every aspect of American life is better than every aspect of life in any other country in the world. They're saying that they're willing to trade bad high schools for the best universities, that they would rather have a world-dominating GDP and a decent per capita than a world-dominating GDP per capita alone, that they would rather have New York City than Hong Kong. They're pointing out that the infant mortality rate between first world countries is essentially equal, and that the rankings hide the fact that the differences are negligible. They're not saying our health care system is better, that our public transportation is better, or even that our airlines are the most efficient. They're saying that in the weighted matrix of categories, no country gets a better score *despite* getting high scores in many areas. They're simply pointing out that their weight factors are different from yours. The anti-Americanism that is most honest is that of people like the rulers of North Korea who say, honestly, they don't like America because it is so large and successful, and that they hate it when this success is used to further human rights. But the more insipid and dishonest version doesn't recognize this, and attempts to hold up a straw man that Americans who say ""This is the greatest country on earth"" are stupid, toothless anti-intellectuals who honestly believe that there isn't a single statistic in which America doesn't top the world. These Americans are imaginary. They don't exist except in the imaginations of jealous masochists or as tiny fringe minorities in counties far removed from economic centers. America is the great experiment of the Enlightenment. It was the first country to be ruled by liberal democracy. And it isn't threatened when others join in the wealth generation that the philosophy yields. Indeed, they celebrate it. They even go too far in trying to spread it."