"Your ignorance of global finance and business is showing through. >Nothing ""conspiratorial"" - just standard tax optimization scheme as shown by Google & Apple. The tech industry is fundamentally different from retailing. That you can't see this is mind boggling. There is nothing ""standard"" about the tax optimization schemes done by Apple and Google that can be copied by grocers. Apple and Google have vast international operations with revenue coming from multiple countries. They are asset light and have very high profit margins. Grocery stores have very small / negligible international operations and are asset heavy. Try also have very low profit margins. >From the point of supply and demand, they are actually overpaid - lots of desperate people that agree to the barest minimum allowed by law (and below that, if you include illegal aliens). Still doesn't mean they are paying the living wage. Mentioning living wages in an argument about supply and demand tips off that you have no clue what you are talking about. Living wage is irrelevant to the supply and demand for labor. What you call ""desperation"" for a job dismissed many of the perfectly logical reasons why somebody may choose to work for a low wage. You assume that the equilibrium wage for grocery store workers is below the minimum wage - falsely. Walmart workers make more than minimum wage, on average, before benefits are taken into account. Illegal aliens can't do most grocery store jobs because (1) they can't speak English, and (2) they probably can't do the math needed to be a cashier. Teenagers (the vast majority of minimum wage workers) are increasingly choosing not to work. The supply of people that are able to do these types of jobs is probably not much bigger than it is already. >20% are imported. And they don't have to set up a ""supply chain"" - just the bare minimum to legally siphon funds into another company they own, be it via interest on credit, rent, intellectual property (i.e. franchise or trademark payments) or anything else. This is laughable, do you really believe this? Grocery stores have absolutely MASSIVE supply chain risk. Arguably their entire value proposition is in supply chain. You seem to think there's an evil cabal moving money around to screw people over. This is left wing bullshit conspiracy stuff. You sound like a left wing version of Alex Jones. Show me clear evidence that a grocer is doing this, including references in their actual financial statements."