">The odd thing about primary school education (that I hear from talking to teachers) is that the materials used in the classroom are all bought under some sort of district wide (or even state wide, in the case of texas) decision for which program to use. It didn't used to be that way, but yes, that is pretty much how it is done these days.. basically ""central planning"" and ""one size fits all"" as I said. >For reading they generally include a set of books (or single book) with a sequence of things to be taught. Teacher's who've been teaching for a long time will know which series has useful properties for teaching the material. They might refer to them by names, but it really just comes down to a set of materials and sequence of introducing material. And of course none of that really has ANYTHING to do with actual ""reading"". >When one teacher says to another ""I used $X to supplement the required $Y"" it'd be like a software engineer saying ""I used a hash map instead of a map for that case because it had better performance for the use case"" - there's a fair amount of baggage in the statement, but another software engineer would understand the differences and know what tradeoffs were being made. No. That's a rather poor analogy. A better analogy would be: ""We used to use SAP, but then we got bought out by XYZ corporation, and now we have to build everything around Oracle."" (And the reality is that both choices are crap.) >As to the ""Master's in Reading"" - there's a lot of goofy degrees offered through the Education departments at state schools. A large part of it is because the union pay scales include things like education level. They tend to be equivalent to any terminal masters program you'd find in other subjects - including MBA. ""Take these classes - part time and summers over the next 3 years, and if you pass them all, we give you a piece of paper that says ""Masters of Education - Reading"" or similar. It comes down to something like 45 credit hours with a focus on something. It's also a result of the ""requirement for continuing education"" to maintain Teaching licenses/certifications. And yeah, it has created a lot of ""Underwater Basket Weaving Experts"" -- the problem is that they ACTUALLY *SINCERELY* BELIEVE that they have some significant ""expertise"".. even though it can *not* be shown in their results (if it could, they would be ""all about"" merit pay). >I actually doubt that. It's going to come down to the sets of materials they have available for teaching. Some work, some don't. The structure of the system discourages improvisation, unfortunately, and the teachers often feel that they have their hands tied. Young, beginning teachers feel they have their hands tied -- those types either leave teaching, or they succumb to the system. The teacher in question (with the ""Masters"" in ""Reading"") succumbed to the system long, long ago. And that teacher's whole concern was really just a ""brand X"" versus ""brand Y"" thing -- the teacher knows ""brand X"" and so can (and probably does) ""teach"" it while half-asleep. Most long tenure teachers tend to get in a comfortable ""rut"" -- comfortable in no small because it is not only familiar, but also because it then requires little work to update their curricula or prepare anything new -- disrupting that (i.e. switching from ""brand X"" to ""brand Y"" is therefore nearly always met with either opposition or grumbling & grudging compliance). **It is INDEED ""the system"", but one must keep in mind that it is the ""teachers"" (collectively, in aggregate over time) that have essentially created that system.**"