">Just came across this Economist article, they make it sound quite straight forward and I don't think they can be called totalitarian leftists by any stretch. Yes they point out that the US corporate tax is horribly punitive and forces companies to spend insane amounts of money to lower their tax rates to globally competitive levels; that the tax rate is ridiculously and punitively high (though SOME companies have been able to lower their taxes far below the statutory rate) and that the global taxation of income is an insanely punitive totalitarian practice, that no other G-7 country would dare try to put in place. >It seems clear that the 35% rate is not the driving reason for these huge companies doing inversions. Then what is causing them? Are they spending billions of dollars on overseas inversion driven acquisitions just to throw the money away? No the reason, as is simply laid out in your quote is the extremely high tax rate and the global taxation of income. The companies that pay closest to the statutory rate are the ones most desperate to leave. Summary: some companies pay less than the average rate, some pay more. The ones paying at the highest level on earth on all their global income, are desperate to leave this greedy corrupt government behind. If the US government wants to treat them so poorly, I commend these executives for saying fuck off back to the politicians. Hopefully, one day politicians will see this and put in a fair and competitive corporate tax system, or zero out the corporate tax and recover the lost revenue from rich capital owners as they should. >but I just don't want to hear the silly argument of ""oh our poor mega corporations are having to pay the highest taxes in the world!"" when the tax environment in the US is clearly rigged in their favor. Many large US companies do pay the highest tax rates in the world while some pay very little. Guess who is doing everything they can to leave behind our wretched greedy government: the ones with the high tax rates. The companies desperate for inversion deals aren't the ones paying zero taxes. >Small and mid sized companies that can't afford their own Congressman sure are getting fucked though, and that makes me sad. Most small companies don't pay any corporate taxes as they aren't organized as C corps."