I think a lot of research is about to get cited very soon. I'll dump it here. I have a full time job so I don't have a lot of time to dig it up; I'll let the researchers do the researching for now. I'll get back at you when a compilation of research comes out. My goal will be to provide the most up-to-date, global studies on gender interest levels for different career fields under the hypothesis that we will see that far fewer women are interested in tech, despite the development level or cultural background. But, c'mon, let's be honest: All over the world men are the majority of those in tech. That didn't happen in every single society in the history of humanity because there was not a gender bias for career fields. If I need to cite a paper to admit there is validity to this guy's claim, then no amount of research will convince you that the bias is there. It's like convincing Trump that climate change exists, he doesn't want to believe it, so he will ignore all of the evidence to the contrary and focus on the tiny exceptions. Here is a little bit of research for thought, though: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0153857 >Most importantly and contra predictions, we showed that economically developed and more gender equal countries have a lower overall level of mathematics anxiety, and yet a larger national sex difference in mathematics anxiety relative to less developed countries. Further, although relatively more mothers work in STEM fields in more developed countries, these parents valued, on average, mathematical competence more in their sons than their daughters. As people get more economic choice, they tend to **separate** their profession based on their gender. It's a bit paradoxical, but only if you assume that males and females have equal interest in all fields. If you open your mind to the possibility that women and men have separate interests that are biological ingrained, then it makes a lot of sense. If men and women are biologically predisposed to a certain career fields, giving them more choice will separate them into those fields. More food for thought: https://www.economist.com/news/business/21632512-worlds-most-female-friendly-workplaces-executive-suites-are-still-male-dominated