"Facebook is an ""online social networking service"" which I'd categorize as an ad-supported social media platform for a type of company. Facebook makes money from advertisers and applications on the site, so there are a couple of different income streams though in recent years Facebook has done a number of acquisitions that should be noted as the company is much more than just the FB site. In terms of B2C or B2B, I see Facebook as being a B2C where businesses are paying for access to consumers rather than businesses looking for other businesses. Some of the posts on Facebook can be ""Sponsored posts"" that are where things can be a bit blurry for what is an advertisement. At the same time, various games run through Facebook may also make Facebook some money since some games may use in-game purchases that are worth noting. B2B requires one to have 3 companies in the overall system: One that is the middle, one that is providing a service and one that is consuming a service. While Facebook is selling advertising on this site, I don't see this as that different from TV Networks and other distribution channels that ads are bought for consumers to use. There is something to be said for what audience is one aiming. B2B implies corporate customers which I doubt is what Facebook's customers want. Rather they are personal consumers that aren't companies on their own to my mind. If you want something closer to B2B consider Amazon.com's cloud services where companies may buy resources from Amazon as part of the systems they may use to interface with others. I can remember in a previous job that we used Clay Tablet for doing translation services that took content from my employer's servers to Amazon's cloud that would then be taken by the translation company for more than a few different pieces to the puzzle. While part of Facebook could be seen as B2B, I doubt I'd see them as a large part of it but I could be wrong as B2B/B2C distinctions aren't my specialty. Are they yours? Consider Paypal in contrast where a business may use Paypal for payment processing. Paypal has agreements that enable them to process payments either through individual bank accounts or merchant accounts as well as for the company that wants to use Paypal for their e-commerce site. Thus, there can be businesses on each side which is where I see this being a B2B company that is also B2C as some people may just be consumers. Consider Google as another contrast where companies may pay to use Google for e-mail and the Office-like products like Google Docs and Google Drive that I'm not sure is B2B as this is just a business buying services from Google that doesn't involve another company. While there is B2C, B2B and B2G, not every business has to tie into a specific category here for something else to consider."