"> Interests change. So do careers. Of course. A janitor can become a landscaper, a teacher with teaching diplomas can end up as an accountant, an actor can become a great president of the USA (Ronald Reagan) and a business man can also become a great president of the USA (Trump!) However, do you understand that Information Security is a highly specialized technical engineering field that requires tons of specific knowledge and understanding of technologies, protocols, cryptography, database, etc, etc, etc? There's no way that Ronald Reagan, Trump or Susan can become a Chief Info Security officer, medical surgeon, rocket scientist, or even a Rabbi. Am I right? These professions require many many years of specialized studies, residency/apprenticeship to get experience and dedication from the start to a life-long narrow and specialized field. You don't need to be brilliant with specialized knowledge to be an accountant, actor, president of the USA, janitor or even a ""Vice president of sales"". > Undergrad is meaningless at that level and point in career. This is not the point, and I said it already 18 times: I will hire a music major if they have the experience and knowledge needed for an unrelated job. There's almost zero chances the Music major or Fashion major is the type to be an expert in security, so knowledgeable as to become the CHIEF Information Security Officer. **And, again, based on the recent interview with Susan and her answers, anybody, even non-experts, can tell she has no clue about security.** >> I also never agreed that she got the job due to connections: > So give me a possible way how Susan got her job. Can you answer and guess the answer? As for HR and contractors: > Contractors give flexibility to staff up for projects and down again as conditions dictate, and are paid higher rates to compensate for the impermanence. If contractors are more expensive than in-house employees, nobody will use contractors. Trust me!! I also have to hire and work with contractors, in IT, where they really get paid well. They get ZERO benefits, ZERO bonuses, ZERO security, and many in-house employees in similar jobs, per-hour, get paid much more if you account their bonus, medical insurance, facilities, severance packages, training, etc, etc."