"I actually think McDonald's tastes fine, since my expectations are in line with the price of the meal. I don't expect it to taste as good as a more expensive restaurant's offerings, nor do I expect it to taste as good as a home cooked meal, as both have higher costs than McDonald's. To clarify, in the case of home cooked meals, the cost is time. At the point at which I have made the decision to grab McDonald's for dinner, the alternatives were too costly. I, like many Americans, am busy, and am unable or unwilling to find the time to prepare a proper meal on numerous occasions. At other times, my decision is different, as some days I have more time, or more money, to go with something ""better"". I don't think McDonald's can really objectively be considered ""barely qualifying as food,"" as food tastes and health decisions are subjective. One decent (but not definitive) proxy, as is often the case with subjective matters, is popularity. McDonald's is very popular. While this isn't an argument in and of itself, it should remind you that taste in food is, indeed, a subjective opinion. I just plain don't understand why so many people *despise* McDonald's. It's a fast food joint that some people like and some don't-- who cares? I don't particularly like vegan food, but I don't take pleasure in seeing a vegan restaurant shut down. As an aside, vegan cookies are bizarrely delicious. If folks want to talk about, say, McDonald's business practices, labor relations, or environmental record, that's another story. But ""McDonald's tastes like shit LOLOLolo""-type comments typically result in a storm of upvotes that I have trouble understanding. Finally, it seems to be overlooked that McDonald's (and many other American fast food companies) are suuuuper different abroad when compared to restaurants at home. In America, eating McDonald's is very much a quick and dirty affair, but it widely varies from country to country, with (from what I can tell) American McDonald's setting something of a *floor* as far as McDonald's dining experiences go."