This will continue happening. I'm not sure why people are surprised. 1. Wealth attracts wealth. Once you have billions you can use the millions you make from interest (without ever touching your capital) for many new endeavors. It's pretty hard to lose everything once you're worth billions. 2. It's easier to become a billionaire faster than what it was 20 years ago, and will continue to increase in pace. Instagram was sold for $1B before 2 years of being founded. 3. People are living longer and having less children. In combination with #2, in the past the distribution of wealth through inheritance happened quicker than the creation. Takes you 30 years to create a $5B estate and it's then divided into 5. Today it takes you 15 years to create a $40B estate and it's divided into 2 after 40 more years. 4. It's easier to add more value than 50 years ago. Today a software engineer can develop software that automatically does what a whole 1,000-person company did in the past. Adding value generates wealth. 5. It's easier to stay on top of more things. In combination with #4, you can now use technology to add much more value in bigger enterprises. Consider Musk as an example being the CEO of Tesla, SpaceX and finding time for the neuralink and boring projects. That would have been impossible 50 years ago. In general innovation creates value. Globalization creates a much larger marker for that value to be applied in. Technology makes it for more innovation to happen in an ever-increasing pace. World living standards are at an all-time high, but the leaders can separate themselves farther from the pack not because it is unfair, but because technology allows them to. In order to innovate, you must take some risks and be able to step away from your day to day obligations to analyze opportunities. That's why I believe a better social safety net is required. But this will only increase the amount of billionaires out there and will increase living standards for everyone; it will not necessarily decrease inequality.