">We also have the highest expenditures as a percent of GDP than any other nation. Needless to say we spend a LOT on health care also. That is in large part do to insane healthcare costs passed on to the consumers by the aca. Healthcare spending has increased on average 1.5% annually since 2009 where as the highest growth in spending from 1991 until 2006 was 1.3% (im willing to admit my research may be incomplete or inaccurate here as the available rescources are pretty limited in my short time researching) >we do have arguably the best health care services in the world.. that is mostly only true if you are very wealthy. Thats a dumb statement leftists make. There is no excuse to not put yourself in debt for the best healthcare possible. Idk about you but I'd rather be in a lot of debt getting first rate healthcare than get affordable care from a 2nd rate community college doctor. Did you also know that medical debt doesnt effect your credit score so even if you ""default"" on medical debts it doesnt effect any part of your life. so why wouldnt you go in debt and then slowly pay off that debt with no fear of negative repercussions for not paying? >When you break it down on results per dollar spent, the US doesn't even break the top 20. When you break it down on infant mortality, and life expectancy, we have been on a backward slide for a while now (although those rates improved for the short while that the ACA has been in effect, as have the net increase in costs). At the end of the day, the cost of health care has grown 3X faster than inflation, and 20X faster than the average income for over 30 years now. So, no, health care in this country is not the best to the average person. I dont have health insurance and an ER visit with xrays costs me less out of pocket than 90% of the country why is that? Do you think it has to do with the fact that with the aca hospitals know they are getting paid with 0 questioning on pricing so charge whatever they want and with me they think ""shit this guy might not ever pay us lets just give him a decent price and get some money from him because all we can do is send his bill to collections"" you clearly dont know how the system works especially because you think its my responsibility to provide you with health insurance. You keep saying i need to travel and experience the world when all you need to do is go to google and look at what a wonderful job Switzerland does with their healthcare. The swiss do everything better, They have some of the best services in the world and a very affordable healthcare plan with many options that is affordable to the tax payers unlike the ACA. You have a very clear Scandinavian bias as im assuming you're a bernie supporter who loves democratic socialism despite all of its short comings. >And yes, Space X has been able to estimate a savings of $300M less.. Commercial does a great job of expanding on the research and knowledge that has come from government sponsored R&D. You see that in every modern technological advancement - from the internet, cellular phones, GPS, medical procedures, etc. There are so many modern inventions that have sprung from government patents and government research programs. This is the dumbest statement youve made this entire time. The notion that inventions that were made on the governments dime (my dime) is somehow the product of the government is asinine at best. Youre operating under the assumption that these inventions wouldnt have been made without government funding which is false. They all would have been made on a smaller budget granted maybe a little bit further down the road but not by much considering technology has expanded (with no help from any government) more in the last 20 years than in the prior 200 because thats what technology does it makes life easier for everyone and almost innovates itself. Take apple for instance where is all the government funding they recieved to be one of the most innovative companies in human history or microsoft? Yiou can max 10 things government funding invented when i can walk into your house and point out 10000 things the government had no hand in at all."