Afternoon /u/snappykr22! > It is not right to force people to buy any product or service. Period. I think I understand why you feel this way but I disagree. Taxation is forcing someone to purchase products and services provided by the government that he may or may not want. It is not ideal but just as a family would fall apart without demands on it's members, a country will do the same. Government can not exist if your position is applied across the board and we are all better off with government. > This mandate is just one of the terrible things about Obamacare. Nobody likes the mandate just like nobody likes taxes but both are required to keep their systems functioning. Pointing to the mandate as bad isn't going to change my mind on Obamacare any more than pointing to taxes is going to convince me to support dissolving government. You will need to show me that what we get for the mandate isn't worthwhile. > Obama effectively gave people the option to get insurance AFTER they get sick without consequence of higher prices. Obama did NOT give people this option. This is precisely the scenario the Obamacare mandate prevented because you were forced to get insurance before you got sick. By saying he won't enforce the mandate President Trump IS giving people this option and you are absolutely correct on how that will play out. > I am not a bad person. I'm not greedy, either. Of course not. You put a lot of time into your answer just to explain your position to some guy on the Internet. I appreciate that. > Running water in your home. Central air. Life-saving surgery/drugs and physical therapy. Being able to turn on and off electricity with a switch. Make a pot of coffee right at your kitchen counter top. *snip* The government did not of this. People did. Government is instrumental in providing **ALL** of this. Think about it.. > Running water in your home. That is water you and your state have a right to collect because of agreements handled by the Federal Bureau of Reclamation. It was collected and stored in public reservoirs, which exist because of dams built by public works projects. Your municipality then cleans and purifies the water and pumps it to your house in public facilities and treats the resultant sewage. > Central air. [People used to install air conditioners with CFCs which are responsible for the Antarctic hole in the ozone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ozone_depletion). It wasn't until the EPA called attention to the problem and the government outlawed the refrigerant in the 80's that things changed. In addition refrigeration is an energy-heavy technology but the energy grid doesn't have to do rolling blackouts because the government mandates minimum insulation on homes and efficiency standards. > Life-saving surgery/drugs and physical therapy. [The US governments funds a little less than half the drug research](http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2017/03/data-check-us-government-share-basic-research-funding-falls-below-50). We also know these items improve peoples lives because the FDA and NIH have demanded clinical trials to prove new treatments are safe and effective. Don't forget that government institutions like the HHS and CDC have pushed vaccinations and outbreak responses to effectively eradicate nasty diseases like smallpox, polio, and malaria. > Being able to turn on and off electricity with a switch. Electricity has been recognized as a [public good](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_good) and those companies are strongly regulated. The transmission lines that bring power to your house are required to be open so one power company does not have a monopoly on supplying your house power. Are air is no longer choked with soot because of the EPA and the DOE monitors and regulates nuclear waste. > Make a pot of coffee right at your kitchen counter top. Coffee is imported from South American or African countries thanks to US trade agreements and is safe because of the FDA. Your coffee maker was probably made in China but doesn't burn your house down because the manufacturer is required to follow regulations from the CPSC and if there is a problem you can do something about it thanks to the FTC and/or court system. > And if the government can get the hell out of our way, we can continue to improve the quality of life like we have been for hundreds of years now in this country. The quality of life in the US has been improving in the US for hundreds of years BECAUSE OF government. A capitalistic market is important too but free market principles exist today in Somalia but their lives still suck. The reason is that they are missing a strong central government to fill in the gaps, keep the playing field somewhat fair, and, yes, make a few demands of its citizens in exchange. I hope you're having a great weekend.