"Just what exactly are you trying to do here? Are you trying to defend Susan being the Chief Information Security because she could not learn Systems security? > and a C-level position requires administrative and personnel management skills and understanding of security policy, not specialized technical engineering knowledge of protocols, cryptography, etc. Are you assuming or biased that any real security expert cannot do administrative and personnel management? Trust me that if you can master the latest security protocols, you can do mundane ""administrative"" and ""personnel"" things. Further, you can have great human and presentation skills. > (And not database lol.) You also have no clue about security. FYI, all data is sitting in databases. And if you do not organize the databases correctly, you have no security. For example, social security numbers, masked, cannot be in the same database as personal information. Instead you have a pointer from the personal information the record of the socials security numbers in another database. And just these two databases make life miserable for hackers because they have to steal data from two databases and correlate each one to the other. So I know MUCH MUCH more than you about security. Don't challenge me in that respect. >> she has no clue about security. > When have I ever defended her actions? Just above, and constantly since day one. >> So give me a possible way how Susan got her job. > Five years at HP, a year at Sun Trust Banks, four years at First Data Corporation Do you realize that after she got her music degree, all those positions you listed she was ""Vice President""? So again, how does Susan get all her jobs and titles? What could possibly be that she has such a meteoric rise in the corporate level? Pure talent and skills? >> If contractors are more expensive than in-house employees, nobody will use contractors. > omg where to start. I'll just chalk that comment up to inexperience and lack of understanding of total staff costs over time.. point out that employees cost more over time, demonstrating the benefit of using contractors..) Exactly! Contractors are cheaper than in-house staff which is what I said. Thanks for confirming that. And you said that Contractors get paid more. No they are not, except real experts and almost exclusively in IT field."