">I think you should move along before you get hurt. This is a grown up conversation little one. First: you're clearly a totally arrogant cunt who is so uncomfortable with the position he has elected to take that he can't argue it on its merits and is instead left with petty insults, so it is actually not clear to me why I'm even responding. But anyway, here we go. >The UK did NOT sell debt and simultaneously purchase its own debt in the past (until modern times). I state at the outset that I take this to include purchases of government debt by central banks. If you mean the ""government"" itself re-buying its own debt then firstly I'm not sure where that came from and secondly it isn't what I'm talking about. Put some meat on the bones here, sport: when do you define ""modern times"" as commencing? I don't want to give you a date and then have you move the goal posts again. So give me a time period you're after so we can go again. Also note I said the British Empire, not the UK. You should perhaps do some reading on Pitt the Younger, or the history of the Bank of England in general. You'll no doubt see that it provided loans to the government from the beginning, which is equivalent to a modern central bank buying government debt. I wont lie and say it is exactly the same, but the reason it isn't exactly the same is that it was 250 years ago. There was no open market operations as there is now, with monthly bond auctions. The BoE just loaned the money when needed. Bonds were typically only issued for specific purposes (e.g. Napoleonic wars). What Pitt the Younger did in freezing redemptions was the equivalent of the BoE buying British government debt. But anyway I await your vitriolic and completely-point-avoiding reply. >And who said the reason soviet union collapsed was because of its banking policies? Putting words in peoples mouths aren't we. You did: >So, the soviet union purchases its own debt, and this is a shining example of a historical empire that worked in your mind? Come on man, you aren't that fucking stupid are you? You don't need me to explain why that is a very, very incorrect choice do you? What else were you trying to say there? You asked for an example, he gave it, you said it was a bad example. Remember, just in case you can't stay on topic, the discussion is about central banking policy here. I presumed you were implying that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the reason for it being a bad example for central bank policy. Please otherwise feel free to articulate why it is a bad example, citing specific evidence if you don't mind."