"*""Amy has applied some deep rationale to her blog post because she felt robbed of her time…""* No, dude, I've never worked at a startup - not unless you count Limewire. I've watched it all happen to lots of people I care about, though, and heard horror stories from all kinds of well-known founders who you wouldn't expect to be bitching about it out of the public spotlight, say ""I would never do that again,"" ""it's a mistake,"" etc. Because of my speaking career, I've also had the good fortune to hang out with famous folks who already had sold their companies. Believe you me, they are not the jolly happy rich people you would expect. They were sad, and wan. But nobody will write about it. I've never worked more than a 40-hour week for any length of time, and perhaps more importantly, at my first ""real"" job at a high tech contract firm at 21, I negotiated a 4-day work week of 8-hour days. Everybody told me I was crazy and would get fired, but obviously that didn't happen. Meanwhile I spent the rest of *my* youth working at a party company (Limewire) then consulting for bigcos like Bear Stearns and Pepsi, then building my own products starting at 24. Now at 27 I've got a whole bunch of products and a verrrry nice income and a short work week, and over a half million dollars a year in revenue. I'm not bitter. I'm passionate. *""Sadly, her reputation with prospective employers might be influenced by her choice of words in the interest of ""fucking glory.""""* If the worst happened, and somehow all my slow-growth, very profitable products disappeared overnight, I would find a job in a hot minute. Don't you worry about me. Real companies LOVE people who actually give a damn. And the fact is, I'm amazing. My husband & I clear over $250,000 years off the most boring software *ever* and spend barely a day a week on it. But naw. I'm never going to take another job. With the exception of a special art project funded by Pepsi, I haven't done a single hour's worth of work for anyone else since January 2010. In fact, this winter I'm taking 30 days off from my own biz -- limiting to 30 minutes a day doing email support -- and taking a road trip around New Zealand with my husband."