">Because people trade currency in exchange for goods and services. Right, and they are *utterly dependent* on continuing to receive money in exchange for goods and services or they will *very quickly* go out of business. Most businesses only have cash reserves to continue operations for a few quarters if they are unprofitable. We are going to assume that businesses wish to maximize profits, and continue operations. Now, consider if they try to ""prevent competition by violent means"", people will stop doing business with them, they will stop getting revenue, and they will go out of business. So we can assume that most businesses are not dumb enough to be violent, because they want to continue to exist. Basically, you make more money through peace. So we're left with ""having control of the market through market share"". If people are satisfied with the business, it doesn't matter if the business controls a lot of the market - it's that way because the businesses' customers want it to be that way. If their customers aren't satisfied with the business, they will stop buying from that business, which will reduce the market share. Also, other competitors that better meet the customers' needs will arise, which will further impact the market share of the business that is misbehaving. Without government, there's no mechanism to stop new competition from arising if the business isn't meeting the customer's needs. So your proposed mechanisms either won't happen, or will fix themselves if they do happen. >Price can be controlled by the threat of super low prices in order to drive out competing businesses And this can only happen for so long before the company no longer has the ability to subsidize their goods. But why would the business do this, if their intent is to maximize profit and continue operating? This behavior puts both at risk. So, now that we have demonstrated that your proposed mechanisms of monopolization either won't happen, will solve themselves, or contradict the purpose of a business, what other mechanisms do you propose a corporation is going to use which will create a monopoly without a government to help them?"