"But for the people that do, and sacrifice it all in order to make a better life for their children, would you then tax them so their children have to start over at nothing again? Would I personally tax them? Only if I truly wanted a meritocracy. If I wanted a pure meritocracy then yes absolutely. The parent is the one who clawed out of poverty, not the kid. The kid just rode along, he didn't agonize to get out. Why should he enjoy the fruits of someone else without any of the labor? (This is just the argument.) What I personally want would be something a little more 'gray' but it is hard because everyone in a society is going to want a different shade of that gray. ""That sounds like incentivising poverty again, and it doesn't actually fix anything.If unemployment benefits and higher taxes are the problems keeping people in poverty, I don't see how the solution should be to tax more so that we can what.. have more benefits programs that incentivise poverty?"" There's a lot to this question so I might not respond to each and every thought here, sorry about that. Sure, some unemployment benefits and higher taxes might de-motivate people to work harder. Why work harder when your labor won't be enjoyed by your offspring? Well you as an individual would still enjoy your labor, and presumably it would be easier to claw one's self out of poverty because economic mobility would have been improved upon. The issue that many are complaining about is that it is becoming more and more common for Americans to die in the same socioeconomic status they were born in, or a lower one. There are higher economic mobility rates in many of these other countries, but why? (Big research topic). Furthermore, I personally think that economic policy needs to adapt to the changes in society and technology. To think policies of the past are appropriate for other times, is an over simplification in my mind. ""It feels good to demonize the ""rich"" because we all can participate. The homeless can blame the $40k income can blame the $250k income can blame the $1M income can blame the %1. Because they have more stuff than we do. But taking that stuff away doesn't increase the standard of living for anyone, it actually makes it more difficult for everyone."" Maybe for some people, simply attacking people who have more money is satisfying and they will simply always attack someone who has more. However, my understanding is that extreme inequality is actually a problem that reduces a countries rate of growth. (I am not alone in this) That is, the distribution of wealth has been slowly shifting, why? How are things changing? Why are things become more stratified? Why is economic mobility decreasing? Why is American productivity raising dramatically while wages have been stagnating and not keeping up with how hard they work? The distribution of wealth is simply a data point, an indication of underlying issues. No one I know says that the distribution itself is inherently bad, the question is what that distribution tells us about the structure of a country."