">right wing A big part of the problem is that people continue to distinguish between ""right"" and ""left"" when they are the same thing. >speaking points mix facts in with lies *All* mainstream political discourse is rife with lies. >Democratic speaking points are slightly better because This is you buying into the deception. Slightly better than absolutely terrible is still terrible. >I suspect they are to some extent pretending to disagree more than actually disagreeing Your suspicion is accurate. This is a process called ""framing"", where the two ""sides"" collaborate to establish the ""acceptable boundaries of the discussion"". Anyone who doesn't stay within the boundaries are dismissed as ""radicals"" or ""extremists"" on ""the fringe"". You pitch your frame such that the desired outcome falls in the middle, then you look like you've ""compromised"" when you agree on the same thing the establishment wanted in the first place. >The fact is, both parties are neoliberal as heck and neither at this point has the country's best interests at heart. That's because they're the ""right"" and ""left"" hands of the establishment. Your hands oppose each other, such that through opposing each other, they can work together to accomplish your goals. The same is true of politics. And politicians never have ""the country's best interests at heart"". They have only their interests, and whatever promises they made to the people they depend on to fund their campaigns. Hint - they don't care about your donation. Your money is nothing compared to the big money. >Its a side effect of the concentration of wealth caused by accelerating technological growth No, the concentration of wealth has *not* been caused by accelerating technological growth. Technological growth *reduces* concentration of wealth. What has caused concentration of wealth has been government policy that actively takes money from the majority public and gifts it to the wealthy establishment, encompassing both monetary and fiscal policy. >It will get worse as more and more jobs succumb to automation. Again you're on the wrong side of this (and the politicians thank you for that). Automation is a *good thing*, automation has *always* resulted in having a wealthier and more productive society. Whenever jobs are automated, it frees people up for new pursuits, and people think of new ways to be useful."