"now that's just crazy talk. Politicians on capitol hill wouldn't dream about talking about any sort of *tangible* aspects of economy. Focusing on raw goods/commodities production through a campaign? Shit.. that's PR suicide in every urban area (which immediately matters based on population numbers). Much easier to either reference your local military benefactors as ""job creators"" and espouse them if you have them. If you don't, then speak to an idealistic sentiment which entertains any willingness to jump to total warfare at a moment's notice. Once you fall out of favor with the military elite in the rest of the country, you are seen to be managing your community ""dangerously irresponsibly"" and ""frighteningly ignorant of the dangers in the world."" And, obviously, the biggest money is in technology people simply *can't* talk about publicly. It's unwise to ignore those efforts/finances, however. The only flexible mainstay in the budget is Defense. Healthcare spending is, well, the term *gluttonous* comes to mind. Education? Lol. Right. Just put the kids in debt and go fuck yourself / have a nice day. Oh and don't forget your 306^^th monthly installation of your house payment. The other mainstay of the budget? Pensions. Good luck reforming that with the unions in any direction but toward the sky. Welfare? Welfare reforms generally play out really well in the media, don't they? Can you say, ""fuck you, poor people,"" any louder? Defense. Defense is the only malleable entity in the budget but we all know it's easier for the commercial politicians® to purchase media campaigns and drum up not only a sentiment of war, but conditions for their own interests to secure new business in other countries. Teaching Americans to fear things about the world can be done and it costs about $150m per year in a single direction if you know someone who will take your money (gurgling network executives shitting their pants with good, old-fashioned Incontinence). If anyone was ever serious about turning greater profits from commercialization of military research, they'd improve the goddamned state of education in the country. [What a fucking farce.](http://i.imgur.com/22mZxCr.png) There should be a plan in place to study the rate of the nominal value of domestic technological innovation, as best as can be perceived, and the spending elsewhere in the budget needs to be correlated to that figure directly. We cannot continue assuming innovation is constant in the United States while restricting education funding so heavily. It is such an embarrassment. And we're imperiling ourselves by finding supplementary, service-based revenue solutions by beating the same dead horse with financial policy. The guys at the Fed are tired. Believe me."