"Suppose you have a bar of gold and are hungry. I buy the gold from you for cash, which you then use to buy food, clothes and generally support yourself. Would it be fair to say that I paid for your food, clothes etc? I don't think so - I think *you* paid for them, in gold. I facilitated the exchange of gold into money, and without me or someone like me around to provide liquidity for your gold, you'd still be hungry. But fundamentally, it was the gold that was valuable. Now, suppose there is a lack of liquidity in gold - there's a shortage of gold buyers. I take advantage of this distortion to offer to buy your gold for half its free market value. You don't want to accept this deal, but since your only alternative is starvation, you accept. I say this is wrong, not because of socialism, but because of capitalism. The efficiency of capitalism arises from the price system of value. Goods and services command a fair market price, and buyers and sellers have access to both liquidity and good information about the relative value of things. When distortions are allowed to interfere with free market pricing - as inevitably happens under lassiez-faire capitalism - this efficiency is lost. Good government regulation is necessary to keep markets free and efficient, and this is good for everyone. So what does this have to do with David Siegel? First, nothing in my example above changes when you substitute ""labor"" for ""gold."" If I am hungry but I have a skill, and I sell you some of my labor for cash, then use the cash to buy food, *you did not give me the food*. You did not ""pay for my food,"" you did not ""make it possible for me to get food,"" or anything of the sort. *I paid for it myself*, by trading labor for cash in exactly the same way that you could trade gold for cash. Second, the price system of value allows you to earn a ""normal profit,"" which means sufficient profit for resources to remain within an industry. But ""excess profit"" harms market efficiency and thus the price system. This is pure capitalist theory, straight from Adam Smith; it is nothing to do with socialism or communism. It is quite clear that David Siegel is taking excess profit. This is no different from the sort of profiteering I described when there's only one gold dealer in town. It is parasitic behavior according to *capitalist* theory. And finally, David Siegel is the guy who invented high-pressure selling of timeshares by inviting familes to a ""free"" vacation, trapping them in a room, and basically holding them hostage until they sign on the dotted line. His business is near-criminal. You can argue that drug kingpins also create thousands of jobs - that doesn't make them good people, or their actions beneficial to society. I already thought David Siegel was a parasite on society before I ever heard of his opinion on Obama. And quite frankly, I'm shocked and appalled that people are actually defending him."