> The most important pieces of any corporate structure are (1) clarity of roles, (2) accountability, and (3) ease of communication. I have to agree and second this wholeheartedly. Every place I have seen failures occur were almost completely because of at least 1 of these things being absent. To clarify, every one of those failures could have been avoided if the focus had been shifted onto fixing these 3 items inside operations. &nbsp; The largest ones were due mostly to accountability and communications issues. The clarity of roles can be overcome in dynamic environments with absolute focus on the other two. Accountability is a two-way street though. This is especially true in any environment that is measured on metrics. One example is below: &nbsp; Operations environment for any type of ticketing > resolution work. This could be anything IT, service or delivery related that has any form of SLA. A common occurrence that is overlooked in metrics environments is whether or not an issue being forwarded, escalated or otherwise dumped onto any other entity, including initial submission, has all the needed information to complete or resolve the task at hand. In this example metrics are usually tracked with timers ticking once the task has been assigned to the next entity. If the task requires certain information or details before it can be acted upon or completed, then the receiving entity can't proceed. This specific instance, there was no communication channel back to the submitting internal entity to obtain the info, leaving the only option to reject the task. Instead of addressing the root problem of communication, mgmt cranked down on accountability towards the team that rejected the task. This started causing all sorts of issues with SLAs going way outside of acceptable metrics and no one with authority to fix it could figure out why. So, *logically* a more in-depth approach was taken to intensify the unidirectional accountability that caused the problem. This did not fix the issue and led to too many good people being fired for failing to meet SLAs. They brought in a consultant to fix the problem, who took the same approach as before. Meanwhile, people on the team being held accountable for completing these tasks that were poorly communicated had been trying to explain why this wasn't working. Mgmt wouldn't listen to a single sentence from these people. Things went very bad. in this case everything could have been completely avoided; or at least fixed if communication was allowed in both directions in order to understand that accountability also needed to be implemented in the other direction so that the team assigned the initial task actually received all the information required to complete said task. &nbsp; They sacked 1/2 the team before any improvement occurred. What they did in the long run to fix it was move the entire task role to the costly initial internal submitting entity, and downsized the role and scope of the less costly team that only needed information. They effectively cost the company millions in lost productivity. I watched this occur with my own 2 eyes from an internal perspective the entire time trying to get them to avoid such a pitfall. A one-way / top-down only perspective on communication and accountability only hurts everyone involved. Just my $0.02. Cheers :)