"Holy fuck, what the fuck are you talking about? > Walmart operates on a ""just in time"" basis that they operate themselves, with as many walmarts that exist around the country, you can go witness this by yourself, every day of the week 364 days a year. What does this sentence mean? Is this even English? If you're saying Wal-Mart is the only company that uses just-in-time logistics, you're cluelessly wrong. It's been pretty standard across many companies for decades. Amazon, however, has taken logistics to another level of innovation. For example, Amazon's Vendor Flex program takes advantage of its suppliers' warehouses instead of its own. A supplier like Proctor & Gamble fences off a section of its warehouse for Amazon orders, and Amazon employees fulfill orders straight from that location. This saves time and money for both. P&G doesn't need to ship to an Amazon warehouse, and Amazon doesn't need to store inventory for even a second. Amazon is the leader in innovations like this, and its willingness to share data and create partnerships with its suppliers has helped its partners find and create efficiencies to pass on to Amazon's customers. For example, suppliers receive real-time data to predict demand, rather than guessing how much product to make for the next bulk order. Meanwhile, Wal-Mart is doing stuff the old-fashioned way: ordering products from suppliers, moving them to distribution centres and then to stores. And while Wal-Mart is good at getting stuff into stores, it's hopelessly lost trying figure out [last mile](https://www.datexcorp.com/last-mile-delivery-part-1-omni-channel-retail-affecting-transportation-logistics/) delivery — the final delivery to people's homes. Wal-Mart's method is to get customers to drive to them, or even to get their [employees to drop off orders on their commutes home](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2017/jun/02/walmart-asking-staff-to-deliver-online-orders-on-their-way-home). Amazon has that stuff mastered and is getting better all the time. ---------------- >The only thing Amazon can bring to the equation is a system in which WF suddenly can operate at a loss and Amazon share holders simply don't care, like they haven't cared for the last 20 years amazon has made ""no money"". Whole Foods has been horribly inefficient, especially with regards to how it works with smaller, local suppliers in many different locations. Amazon has long figured out how to efficiently get products from many thousands of small suppliers. --------- Edit: Get a clue, learn English, and learn how to spell ""blatantly"" before you start criticizing others."