"Yes and no. Any great idea, excluding new technologies/discoveries, usually involves a trade-off. Good ideas taken to their extremes usually are pathological. I've generally worked in the open communication environment Musk describes for most of my career for 25 years and I've seen where it works and where it doesn't, and what Musk's email misses is where it doesn't work. It is a good *starting point*. For one thing, there need to be filters. A VP, Director, Senior Manager, CEO, or other higher up cannot deal with 1000 emails per day for ideas, criticisms, etc. He does mention avoiding ""chit chat"", but employees with ""good ideas"" for technology or business do not see their suggestions as ""chit chat"". Most actual *good* ideas from juniors are too low level for senior management, such as different platforms, coding methods, etc. Most ideas that senior management are needed, like company direction, organization, etc., require a sophisticated knowledge and experience of business, contracts, etc. Most of the junior ideas I've seen, including my own, were bad ideas that came from lack of experience in business. Or take some new HR policy. Imagine the thousands of direct responses of people straight to HR on the policy. That would grind things to a halt. The whole purpose of direct managers and supervisors is to filter information down, up, and sideways so that other people can do their jobs. You don't want to have high-value people (knowledge, experience, specialties) spending their day dealing with emails and other people's ideas. You want them providing that value to the business. So you need filters -- people who can recognize the good from the bad and pass on the bad. That could be direct managers at the employee's side, or it could be administrative help at the department's side. Either way, it's necessary to be efficient. Then there's the problem of including all stakeholders. If you are junior and work out a solution to a problem with a junior in another problem, but in implementing it you break a whole system (which I've seen happen), you've just caused a lot of harm to the organization. Neither of you may fully understand the implications of your solution on other things. People with responsibility for those things need to be included in the discussion and take responsibility for any implementation. I hate bureaucracy and sometimes it can be a major inefficiency and roadblock for getting simple and obvious things done. But bureaucracy can also improve efficiency and value and a lack of it can be pathological. I've seen marketing and sales people continually take engineers off of important development work in order to build demos for potential new clients, all of which failed to materialize. Why? Because the marketing and sales people were chasing *leads* for contracts without any review of the technical solution, the ideal one, what the solution to the customer needs *really* involves. What was needed to improve efficiency was a ""bureaucratic"" process that reviewed the market opportunities with the technical offerings of the company and either reject opportunities early on or plan and schedule how best to chase the leads. In my experience, what works best in most cases is open communication but clear guidelines (a) on what is appropriate or not to go direct, (b) that the communications are about ideas only and coming up with solutions, and (c) that actions or implementations require bringing the ""chain of command"" into the loop for comment or objection before doing anything. Complaining to management isn't usually of much value and doesn't change much. But, identifying the problem (that is part of the complaint), identifying a workable solution with stakeholders, and asking for permission via the chain of command is usually a good way to get things done without creating the problems of a free-for-all."