The history of the jews even outside Germany is not a very nice on. Nevertheless it does not excuse your views on Muslims, nor should or are the Muslims excluded when it comes to hate speech and crimes. This year alone there were several raids against the radical muslim communitys. The hat speech law is a very good instrument to not have racist group rally against Minority's Muslim Jews or otherwise and to go back to the topic which Facebook has to respect as well. If someone broke the law you have to act and pull that comment which they currently not do nearly fast enough. My opinion stays. Your views are highly racial and not based on facts. You are part of the problem because bot everyone is as smart as you (im sincere here). A Moron heres your speech translates it to beat up all muslims because they are the terrorists and will do so. You talked about freedom tolerance and same rights for all. If you truly want that you have to forgive and not fight. ack with the same weapons. We have something in common regarding our views of the muslim population. They actually do have a big Problem with antisemitism and this Problem needs to be addressed. But as you said same rights for everyone, so we cannot talk shit about them either. In Germany at the moment the anti islam Problem has taken over and reached dangerous proportions. That is why i defend this group so much and cannot let half truths spread. I think we are both a bit tired of this conversation so here is my proposal! we say each other a final statement what we wish for the other to consider in the future. So i try: I really would want you to not succumb to simple prejudice. Please listen to the facts out there and look at the whole picture. You said and posted a lot of things which are well known to be right propaganda (the sweden thing is a 1a example) or half truths like the rise if crimes of germany which us overall true but the rise does not come from rape or violence from immigrants, but migration related topics, while the right wing attacks against muslims and refugees rose considerably. As it stands i can only describe you as a jewish nazi which i really do not want to but have no choice considering your hardline views. Sorry that this was not too friendly. i await your reply.