"First off, you really don't want to get into equity research. It's a dying, shrinking business. Trust me on this. Also, sales skills are key in this business, even in research, because if you're a sell-side analyst, half your job is going to see clients (i.e. sell to clients) with the sales people. As for your internship, put on your big boy (or big girl) pants and stick it out. There's not a lot of room for the ""personality defect"" excuse (""I'm shy"") in this business, nor is there room for the ""but I'm not good at this!"" excuse. If you got this far, you can take a deep breath, put on a smile, and achieve. Here's how: Shyness: Set tiny achievable goals to overcome your shyness. I'm sure you can google the shit out of this but start small, focus on speaking slowly and making eye contact. Become a man (or woman) of few, impactful words. Speaking like this will feel good. Sales skills: Try to analyze -- in detail -- what your experienced coworkers are doing, and how: how do they sound on the phone? What language do they use? What kind of things do they talk about? How long do they speak before letting the client speak? Etc. In general: Try to step outside of yourself a little bit: you're not a special snowflake, and nobody really actually cares if you succeed. It doesn't really matter to your coworkers if you screw up or act strange or shy, because a week after you're gone you'll just be a memory. The corollary of this is that you should consider the pressure off. They yell at you? Who cares? Fuck 'em. Just make small improvements as per the above, do it for yourself, and consider the pressure off. Coping: find a fulfilling evening activity or goal. TV doesn't count. Reading is good. Bicycle racing is good (depending of course where you are geographically). Whatever. Make time for this activity, it will keep you sane. PLUS, being GOOD at something else, even a hobby, will validate you and help you be less shy. Remember, this early in your career, it's all upside, so make the best of it while there isn't as much at stake."