"I'm a manager of a charity shop so work with a wide range of unpaid volunteers, which requires an especially soft touch (most of the time, everyone is different) or people will just leave. It takes longer, but the overall results are better and more long-lasting. Think of it like pushing a boat from the docks with your hand, always applying a small pressure to get the boat to gradually move where you want, rather than ramming into the side of a boat with a truck - sure it'll get you there quicker, but will cause lasting damage. It's also best to take it slow, as you need time to learn the business and people. Be clear about your approach with your boss, managing their expectations is important. Anyway, here is what I've learnt in my first year or so doing this job, plus things I've learnt along the way in my previous career as a software engineer (radical career change!) where I've managed people and been managed: 1. Be yourself. Don't pretend to be someone you're not, everyone will see right through you in an instant. You'll change over time as you get used to managing people, that's fine, but always be yourself through that. 1. Say ""thank you"" to everyone at the end of each day as you say goodbye. Mean it. Think of all the work they've done today for you. 1. Spread the shit evenly. Every job has crap parts, make sure you and everyone else gets their fair share and no more. I regularly hoover, clean the bathroom, wash-up, and so on. 1. Ask, don't tell. If you bark orders, people will do them. but they'll put no effort into it and you'll distance yourself from them. Ask if they could do something for you. It's a politeness, nobody ever says no unless there is an issue which you need to deal with anyway. 1. Pick your battles. Is it worth moaning at someone for that little infraction? Or can you get over that message another way? i.e. I don't like people having drinks on the till counter, so when I take over to cover for them for a break, I just move it. After a while, no drinks appear on the counter. 1. Be honest. If you don't know, say so. ask for input. Weigh up the options out loud, then pick one, explain why, and go for it - or better yet, get the person that thought of it working with you (not for you) to implement it. If you're wrong, hold your hand up and try the other suggestion(s). 1. Always take responsibility when things go wrong - that is actually your job. When things go well, use *you* and *we*. If things go badly, sometimes *I*, sometimes *we*, but never *you*. 1. Always be pro-active with money. If you owe your staff money for any reason, chase them to give it to them, never let them chase you. If there even *might* be any problems at all with money, let everyone know as soon as you know. Go out of your way to ensure they get what they're owed *now*, not later. I just did this today actually, I forgot to do expenses for someone and switched over the till so there wasn't enough cash in the new till to cover it. so I just took it from the money to bank, and marked down why there was a discrepancy on the paperwork and will do the same tomorrow when that doesn't match by the opposite amount. I should not do this at all, but it's the right thing to do. 1. Listen carefully. Often employees have problems but won't bring them up, either they don't think anything will get done, or they don't want to get someone in trouble, or something else. However, if you listen and observe carefully, often there are clues to the things that are bothering them and you'll find ways to tackle them. 1. Don't run a team meeting until you know everyone, if you can avoid it. You don't know shit about how the company works, who the people are, what makes them tick, what they do, and so on. All you'll do is come across as a bit of a tool, and distance yourself from them (as boss). When you do run one, just guide it, don't lead it. Always hand over control of the conversation as much as possible, except of course where you've got things that they need to hear. 1. Never joke about your 'power'. i.e. Don't mess about saying how you'll fire them if blah, or how you'll give them all the shit work, or mention pay jokingly, etc. I had a boss that did that when drunk, not in a serious way at all, and he was very widely hated for pretty well nothing other than that. It served as a constant reminder that he's separate from us. 1. Give people room, but don't be taken for a ride. If someone is late once, fine, I wouldn't even mention it. Late again, maybe I'd make a light joke of it. Late again. we'll have a chat. always listen to what they have to say, is there any way you can help? But, don't be taken for a ride. I've had people pick me up on being late the very first time I was late, and you know what, I was more late for that job from then on than I've ever been before or since. 1. Try to get your employees to come up with ideas to move the business forwards. It's very easy to look at a business and say ""we need this, that, and the other doing. like this!"". But you need to get your employees to buy into it, or they just won't do it properly. It'll be like getting blood out of a stone to start with, but if you're patient and support their ideas most people will come around. You *need* their input as they know their job better than you. 1. EDIT: Always be clear what you want from people, when. Speak with them about the task(s) before-hand to make sure they're comfortable with it and think it can be done in the time. So many times I've been given tasks with unrealistic deadlines, the manager hasn't wanted to listen to my protests, then wonders why it didn't get done in time. It's crazy really, wanting something to be possible doesn't make it so. *A (not so) Quick Example* One volunteer said to me that we should halve the price of all the fiction books to .99 to compete with other shops. I personally don't think that's a good idea (our shop has better quality stock and is much more organised), but I have no evidence to the contrary, and I honestly don't really know. so I say go for it and support it completely as a good idea. We tried it for a month, and we made exactly the same amount of money. sold twice as many books, but no extra cash. So it was valuable to do, and we discovered that maybe 1.49 might be a good option to try. But, far more importantly, they saw their ideas put into action right away, and saw the results of that. It empowered them, which is incredibly important for a wide variety of reasons that are too much to go into here, but basically it makes them feel more respected, enjoy their job more, think more about the business, and so on - you know what it's like when you're empowered, how good it feels. However, it's being empowered with the support that's important, something which you personally going into your new job don't feel you have, which leads to the anxiety and so on I'm sure you're feeling now. Don't put your employees in that position if you can help it. There is also another reason why I outright supported their idea from the offset. It didn't work (although we didn't loose anything) and I thought it wouldn't, but I can say ""*we* tried"". It wasn't down to that one person, they didn't feel bad that it didn't work because I was right behind it, and it's my job to take responsibility. If it had been *their* idea that had failed, they wouldn't give any ideas ever again, and everyone else would be put off too. As soon as anyone tries to take personal responsibility, and they will, stick to your guns in supporting them. stronger than ever. Now we're getting a lot of ideas all the time, they're having in-depth discussions amongst each other, they're pro-active, and so on. As a business we're doing much better now because of it. profits are up 15% from last year and we've only just begun to kick things off, and that's going against a national trend downwards. We've had several critical changes to our shop layout, back-room organisation, results reporting, stock handling processes, and so on. all from volunteer ideas and feedback. So the 15% is actually the tip of the iceberg, what we've got in place now should allow us to grow more quickly too. And remember, you can make suggestions too of course. but they're just that, suggestions. Suggest them to your employees, speak with several of them, then get back to them when you've made a decision. Don't say ""I'm thinking of trying this"", say ""I was just thinking. what about this? Do you think it would work?"" and talk about it. Think of arguments against your idea, see if they counter them, and so on. Now. how many of these changes did I think of before-hand and want to enact? About half. so we've got a significant number of successful ideas that I personally hadn't thought of, everyone's happier and working harder for the business, and we have a bright future. I have more ideas too, and people listen to and respect them now just like I have with them. I think that's the key to it all really. Show your employees respect, and they'll show you it in return."