> Google would be forced to actually compete with companies vs. Giving everything away free. That creates employment opportunities for other startups to compete in a fair environment vs. Trying to acquire millions of users on no revenue. TL;DR Don't blame business, blame the politics that let bad business happen. Business doesn't work like that, specially for a publicly traded company. 'Free' goods or services are used as a loss leader to drive their profits in other sectors of the company. Whether it's for PR, marketing, or sales, no company drives their business at a loss. Somewhere, somehow the free things they do are driving their business towards higher profitability. Money isn't being lost on the economy by providing these things as free, it's just being used in different ways. Sure it could be used to pay for the wages of an employee at a startup which provides the same service.. but if Google is providing it at or below the most efficient market price then it would be *wasting* money to have less efficient companies providing essentially the same product or service. That money could instead be used in more profitable sectors of the economy, which could in turn generate a healthier and/or faster growing economy overall. Working smarter, not harder. Secondly, startups aren't designed for profitability in the first few years of their operations. They're designed to capture users and information (or as patent holders but that's largely unrelated to my main point) that can later be acquired by larger companies who are looking to target those users. Why else would any company pay for a startup while they're operating at a loss? The revenue for startups comes much later on as they're bought out by bigger companies or they find a way to monetize their user base/generate stable sources of revenue. If your argument is that employment by start ups drives the economy at large, I have to ask, if the economy is operating less efficiently (by supporting start ups in replacing the market share currently held by much more efficiently operating large companies ~) by employing more people, how is this healthier for the economy as a whole? Supporting start ups is good but it has to be done in such a way that it doesn't hurt existing business just for the sake of making jobs. The size of a company doesn't make them bad as long as they compete fairly with everyone else in the market. ~ caveat being where large companies do not form an oligopoly (ie Comcast, TWC, etc..) which is obviously inefficient to begin with which is largely a product of bad politics rather than market forces