">> President Trump killed the TPP? Yes, or no? > No, the TPP was declared politically dead before President Trump was elected. Yeh, sure! Hillary was so against TPP, like Obama was. So the answer is ""Yes!"" here. > President Trump is killing and NAFTA and actively against it? Yes, or no? > No, although candidate Trump was strongly against the trade deal President Trump has decided to ""renegotiate"" it. Darling, if you are renegotiating a bad trade agreement called NAFTA, then it will not be NAFTA anymore. Am I right? Yes or No? So the answer is ""Yes!"" here. >>President Trump reduced immigration? Yes or no? > No, at least not yet although he has proposed legislation to do so. Trump killed and is killing illegal immigration. Trump was never against legal immigration. Neither do I. Don't spin it. So the answer is ""Yes!"" here. >> President Trump reduced and kill many regulations? Yes or no? > Yes on this one but.. So, ""Yes!"" here. And Obama was president for 8 years, so you start with Obama misguided regulations (not all of them, but many of them). >> President Trump invests in infrastructure? Yes, or no? > No, while President Trump has promised $1 trillion in infrastructure spending As you know, the President of the USA is not an absolute king. So Trump is for infrastructure, the wall with Mexico and re-doing ObamaCare. Any ideas why those did not happen yet? (hint: something to do with corrupt politicians in congress and senate, ALL(!) of them are democrats and few GOP losers). So the answer is ""Yes!"" here. >> Presider Trump pull out from Wars, e.g. the CIA program to ""support the rebels in Syria""? Yes or no? > No, although you are right Tr Make up your mind. Either it's ""no"" or I am not right. Arming the Kurds, who never had their own country, and are pro-west, is actually anti-War. Kurdistan will put Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey in their place, like Israel does it to their neighbors. One of the worst crimes of modern age, worst than Jews not having their homeland of Israel, is the Kurd not having their country. Arming the Saudis and many other anti-West countries, and paying ransoms to Iran / Iran ""deal"" by Obama is pro-War."