>It's always been that way. You are trying to bend the world around your own circumstances. That's not how it works. Not my circumstances. The majority of people's circumstances. And that *is* how it works. At least that's the way it's supposed to in a democracy. But corporations like Goldman Sachs dedicate millions to lobbying every year, have 7 lobbyists for every 1 politician in Congress, and have people go on from their company to take government positions. Goldman is a parasite at its core: makes money on wall st to lobby Congress into making it more easy to make money on wall st and more effectively lobby to make it even easier to make money on wall st, rinse wash repeat ad infinitum. Goldman is a prime example as more Goldman former employees go on into government than any other financial instution, but they all play the same game and it's beyond naive to think that my 1 vote can ever compare to the influence that corporate motives have on my government. And you can tell by the political hierarchy that the more of your own constituents' interests you sacrifice in favor of corporate profit motives, the more successful you'll be. Compare the likes of Sanders, Warren, Ron & Rand Paul, to the likes of McCain & Kerry and my point becomes glaringly obvious: if you represent your contsituents' interests then you don't stand a chance of influencing the direction of the country, suck lobbyist dick and you'll become a central player in the federal government. >Everything is consolidating to be more efficient. With digital, robots, and globalization, markets have reduced the need for U.S. manufacturing ..and that's what a lot of small towns had going for them. It's gone. Sitting around and wishing for the past to come back with something like the government to legislate it is wishful thinking. >I highlighted the solution: It's to move where the money is or is going. I live in NYC, not some random farm town. However, even though it's home to a lot of rich people, most people are poor and have no social mobility. Social mobility cannot be the solution for lack of social mobility, you are clearly missing steps in your proposed solution. Like I said, it really highlights the severity of the issue much more than it offers any type of solution to it. >People get cranky when they have to give up a skill or trade (or hometown) they've spent 10, 20, 30 years in. I get it. I'm looking for ways to diversify my experience, even having a job in tech, because someday maybe it won't be here.. or it'll be in India, China, Russia, the Philippines, Latin America, Bulgaria or any of the numerous countries where the labor is cheaper and the supply is higher. Yes this is an option. Americans have an option of ignoring reality, refusing to pursue redistribution of wealth, and allowing inequality to drive America to third-world standards. The day Americans have better job opportunities in India, China, and Russia than they do in America is the day I'll be proven 100% right for claiming that the economic system America has cannot last. >It sucks, but it's also reality. If your hope is in voting for some sort of legislative change, godspeed but it won't help. Regulations will be issued and companies will push money to safe havens in Ireland, Liechtenstein, the Caymans, etc. to avoid them. They'll outsource more and layoff to compensate for the new expenses and generally find workarounds. Nationalized businesses to compete with those corporations is clearly the only pragmatic solution. That's how Putin was able to restore sovereignty to Russia, and my suggestion to avoid dictatorial concentrations of power like has resulted there, is to make the companies owned by the people instead of by the government. The state is the people not the government, so true nationalization would give every citizen equity. >Add that to the rise of countries already benefiting from outsourcing and globalization.. maybe the US market isn't so important in 20-30 years. Gives the government even less leverage on corporations. All the mega-corporations that started in America are becoming so large and influential that they outmatch any government on earth in terms of influence on the direction of global development. They are becoming international entities with no loyalties to any country, and have the sole motivation of maximum profit. This a parasitic infestation that has no moral sense of acquiring that profit and thus will continue to do so in a way that drives increasing inequality. The only potential solution is to restore economic sovereignty. For more info on what I'm getting at you can read this paper: >[Abstract: In this paper we analyze one aspect of the standard thesis that **the globalization process leads towards desovereignization**. For the purposes of this paper we have adopted a narrow definition of globalization as a process of global expansion of capital, primarily financial. The classic design of sovereignty of a nation state is compromised due to the proliferation of capital, and **states are becoming less able to resist the power of multinational corporations, both in terms of taking over resources and imposing political decisions.** This fact raises the question of the subject of sovereignty: whether governments represent the interests of citizens (people) who, as the source of sovereignty, transfer the executive power to the government or governments must adjust to the interests of anonymous centres of economic power. If the latter is the case, then we obviously encounter a new kind of sovereignty: economic sovereignty.] (https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=http://iises.net/proceedings/12th-international-academic-conference-prague/table-of-content/detail%3Fcid%3D7%26iid%3D121%26rid%3D1305&ved=0ahUKEwi7_dPu2sXVAhWf2YMKHZPhCdMQFgglMAE&usg=AFQjCNG2lHwzJt92HZascT-V7fovnXyWmQ)