>keep the profit margin the most minimal as possible to gain customers over time That's not the right way to go. The running for the lowest price is endless and no one is going to win. What you have to do is establish your brand and charge a fair price for something that add value on people's life. If they think it's worth they will buy it. That's the best way to grow your ecommerce. Shopify + Dropshipping is the easiest way to go. First what you need to do is find what you want to sell. Then name your store and create a good logo for it. Remember, you need to focus on establish your brand. Going for the lowest price not going to take you anywhere. They will just buy from you because it's cheap and sometimes not even that. You are selling the service not only the product. You can't charge too much but charge the lowest price is not good either. 1- $300 I think it's too much. I would charge you half of that if you were my client. It's easy but time consuming to set up a Shopify store (depending on how many items you would be selling). You need to be aware to banners, logo and social media at very beginning too. So it's not only the store itself. 2- If you are going for Shopify you don't need servers, vps.. The Shopify will be your hosting. What you need would be mostly pay designer (logo, banners), apps (Upsell, hurrify, shipping..), domain and maybe someone to write your product description. About how much would you get back it depends completely of what you are about to sell and how is the market for it. I work with digital marketing and wanted to test my entrepreneurship skills with e-commerce plus my marketing knowledge last week. Ended up making over $5,500 on the first 5 days selling in Brazil. Proof (http://imgur.com/a/zDmot) But if you don't have any knowledge about it don't expect too much at very beginning. You probably won't sell anything or almost nothing on your first month based on some friends experiences. 3- That's true. I spend around $500-$600 to get more than $5,500 in sales in 5 days. They are mostly from Facebook Ads. Never tried any independent website and I don't think that's worth for a new E-commerce in my opinion. But again, if you don't have marketing knowledge you will spend a lot of money to make it worth for you. Here, I highly recommend you to hire someone to do it for you or teach you. That's sometimes an expensive service but better than what you would spend trying to learn/doing by yourself Let me know if I can help you with your website or anything else. I have the knowledge but sometimes I don't know how to express myself. Hope I helped you.