> My wife is trying to start a business. She has no experience at all. Don't put in too much money. Use this as a chance to learn because she's going to have a bad experience. > She is working with the husband of a friend who is importing products from China. Red flag #1. > He is in China and his wife is in the USA on a tourist visa (no work allowed but she works) Red flag #2. > I have caught this guy lying or being way less than transparent many times. You're telling me that a guy using his wife to illegaly conduct business in the US isn't above board? I'm shocked. Shocked, I tell you. > I think he thinks others are stupid and can not easily see his misdeeds. That could be a red flag, or he could be correctly reading the situation. You said your wife has no experience in this arena, so why would he listen to her? > “You tried to screw with me and my wife too many times so F you” Red flag #3. Don't mix business with emotions. > I am asking for a settlement or I will do everything in my power to totally screw up his life Red flag #4. > It will never stop or improve if the second party has a less than acceptable level of honesty and transparency. This is why contracts and lawyers exist. In business, everyone thinks they're making out better than the person on the other end of the table. If they didn't, they would ask for more. There can be mutually beneficial situations, but showing all of your cards is a great way for them to be used against you during negotations. > It is a startup not big money, but us being in the USA as lawful citizens (me USA born, my wife naturalized Chinese ), we hold the risk here. Yeah, don't knowingly break the law. The risk is too high for you. > I lived in China for ten years. Over there, the Chinese do, in almost all cases, all they can do to screw foreigners Red flag #5. Why do you want to be in business with a group you think will almost always exploit you? > My wife thinks that because they are Chinese (the other party), I should be willing to accept this behavior. I totally disagree. Red flag #6. Don't use stereotypes to make judgment calls. > My wife wants to have her own company very badly and she is very disappointed. Life is full of disappointment, and you can't wish for success. Well, you can, but you end up in situations like these. > Do you agree when dealing with lying business “partners” if the offenses continue, even after a warning, that all bets should be off and one should change into “screw them” mode and claw back all possible money/power via all available legal resources? Say it with me. CONTRACTS! CONTRACTS! CONTRACTS! I'm not talking about a quick signature on a napkin. I'm talking about vetted and formalized. You have clear expectations. You have remediation. You have timeframes. If they don't deliver the promised expectation then you sue them. If you act on emotions then you are likely to do yourself more harm than good. If you don't think you can recover what you're due, you shouldn't be in business with a shady operator to begin with. > Comments? Talk to a lawyer. You need to understand your risk and liability. If you're fine, stop investing money into this venture. You'll be taken for all you're worth.