“India is considering a legislative amendment that would end state-owned Coal India Ltd.’s monopoly on coal mining, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said.“But we will move only when there is consensus among all the political parties,” Mr. Jaiswal said Tuesday, highlighting the government’s view that privatization would stimulate new investment in the sector, spurring output of the fuel. “Coal production has to increase to meet the growing demand,” he said.Privatization is politically sensitive, however, and is unlikely to sit well with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s allies in his coalition government as well as among many opposition parties who are opposed to any transfer of state ownership to the private sector–from development of airports to opening up of the retail sector.Left-leaning trade unions, who have influence over majority of coal miners, would likely oppose any plans to amend the 1973 law–the Coal Mines Nationalization Act. An amendment initiated in 2000 has been held up in Parliament primarily due to union opposition–and the immediate outlook for the current plan doesn’t look any brighter.Despite the headwinds, the government is motivated to slim down state-owned operations in favor of the private sector as it battles allegations of unfair policy making across the spectrum. With regard to coal, the government has recently been under sustained attack on how it allocates blocks.The federal auditor of state-owned companies, the Comptroller and Auditor General, has said that the country lost 1.85 trillion rupees ($33 billion) in potential revenue as it didn’t allocate coal blocks via auctions. The charge has led to stalling of Parliament since Aug. 17 by opposition parties led by the main rival Bharatiya Janata Party, which has been demanding Singh’s resignation.Meanwhile, a federal investigation agency separately launched a criminal probe Tuesday into alleged irregularities in the allocations, adding to the ruling Congress Party’s woes.Commercial coal mining in India is limited to Coal India and the much smaller state-run Singareni Collieries. The government has also been allocating coal blocks for captive mining to steel, cement and power producers in order to boost output, although many of these reserves remain underdeveloped. The minister is hopeful that commercial mining of coal, if allowed, will encourage overseas and domestic private-sector interest in India’s coal sector and will help to boost coal output growth, which has been static over past two years. Coal India, which meets more than 80% of India’s coal needs, is facing delays on several fronts in efforts to grow production.Many of the company’s expansion plans await environment ministry approval. The company has also faced resistance from residents in areas where it seeks to acquire more land for mining. Law-and-order problems and strikes have also hit output.Mr. Jaiswal said investors in Singapore and Hong Kong last month told him that opening up the coal sector in India would bolster their interest in the country. The minister said he may lead a delegation later this month to attend a mining summit in the U.S., where he would primarily promote investment in India’s coal sector.Analysts said any government move on the privatization issue is likely motivated at diverting attention from the coal block allocation allegations.Bhavesh Chauhan, an analyst with Mumbai-based Angel Broking Ltd., said that progress isn’t likely in the “near” future, “but, still, if the government is able to amend the law, it is going to be big positive for the country.”In the meantime, policy makers are asking Coal India to outsource more of its ongoing projects and expansions to private-sector miners on a contractual basis, though discussions are at a stalemate, Mr. Jaiswal said, adding that “a panel of officials” is discussing the proposal.The government is also working on plans to auction coal blocks for captive use by the end of the financial year that ends March 31. Both state-owned and private companies will be able to participate in the bidding.