"The article seems to focus more on individual external factors and seems to ignore social and cultural issues. Cultural behaviour at any age is almost all driven by peer groups and the messages and ideologies that peer groups share and believe. It appears that teens to early 20s these days are far more socially conservative, along the lines of 1950s ""Leave it to Beaver"", due to a lot of disasters their generations are experiencing. Most campuses and high schools have been putting in place policies that all drunk sex is rape, for example, and a very large number of boys have been kicked out of schools for having drunk sex with drunk girls and the girls complain months to years later based on rejection, regret, or being convinced by new friends to file the complaint. Heck, our university has a new policy stating exactly that. Sex *impaired* by alcohol or drugs is considered sexual violence, and being impaired by alcohol or drugs is no excuse for not being aware of the impairment of your partner. It's literally a race to the admin office; whoever files first is the victim and the other is the rapist, and filing even 5 minutes later is ""retaliation"" and makes the punishment worse. (For comparison, the legal standard here is ""incapacity"", meaning unable to actively participate in the sexual activity or understand what you are doing, not ""impairment"" which is vague and could be everything from a drink to a slight buzz to blackout drunk.) We're seeing ""yes means yes"" policies; we're seeing sex contracts pop up in response, which of course takes all of the romance and spontaneity out of it and so many people will not have sex that otherwise would have. It's really forcing sex into committed relationships by making casual sex too risky. Then there's cameras everywhere. Women getting filmed without knowing, especially by partners they don't know. And getting on porn sites. Again, humiliating and risky. Similar with sexting. If you are under 18, having a naked picture of yourself on your own phone can be illegal and child pornography, and sending it to somebody else can be very serious. Then there's drunk social media. How much trouble have people gotten into from posting their drunken activities on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram? How many jobs lost? With that phone in your pocket, and getting drunk, what sorts of stupid things have people done that previous generations would have experienced and moved on, but now kids can never live it down or forget? Then there are ideology battles of the young like hasn't been seen in a long time: 3rd wave radical feminism (formerly known as ""man-hating feminazis"") vs MGTOW and MRM, and very public battles in this space all over social media. I think sex, dating, and drinking all fall into those social phenomena that the current young generation experience. The driving part seems a little different. Perhaps costs. Perhaps urbanization has reduced the need for driving. Perhaps the convenience of Uber and Lyft. Perhaps better mass transportation infrastructure. Perhaps the movement to working from home. Perhaps even climate change environmentalism. Or combinations thereof."