I'm pretty sure you already know this, so I'm probably just wasting time. You know, I can't think of a better analogy to the whole global warming debate than this 97% number. A misleading statistic that means nothing is used to mislead the public. The origin of this number was a survey of over 10,000 Earth scientists in climate related fields a few years back. First, it was a non-scientific survey, and only 3000 people bothered to respond. The two questions were: The first: “When compared with pre-1800s levels, do you think that mean global temperatures have generally risen, fallen, or remained relatively constant?” Few would be expected to dispute this…the planet began thawing out of the “Little Ice Age” in the middle 19th century, predating the Industrial Revolution. (That was the coldest period since the last real Ice Age ended roughly 10,000 years ago. 97% of skeptics would answer yes to this. The 2nd: Do you think human activity is a significant contributing factor in changing mean global temperatures?” So what constitutes “significant”? Does “changing” include both cooling and warming… and for both “better” and “worse”? And which contributions…does this include land use changes, such as agriculture and deforestation? Once again, many skeptics would answer yes. Surprisingly, of the 3000 respondents, only 82% answered yes to both questions So there is your real consensus. Well, this wasn't acceptable of course, so they waded through the 3000, and found 79 that they classified as climate scientists. 76 of 79 responded yes to the first question. 96.4 % (What the heck, we have real published scientists who don't even think the earth has warmed?) So then 2 of the 3 who answered no to the first question didn't answer the second question. I think it is fair to say that if they think there was no warming, then they didn't feel that mankind had contributed. But for the survey, they just reported 75 of 77 (97% plus) responded yes to the 2nd question. So even using their own bull$#@!--- picking of a subset of 3000 that got the answer they wanted, they still cheated and reported the 97% statistic, since the honest 95% answer didn't sound good enough to them. Now that's the true origin of the statistic. And you could probably get 90% of skeptics to agree to the two questions. And none of the questions address the real thing being debated. What is the real feedback going to be from CO2 warming? You can't even get a consensus on whether it will be positive or negative.