"Thats easy: My direct manager, the Director of IT, 1. Does not micromanage. Meaning he treats me like an adult who knows how to get things done. I never ever feel bad about watching cat videos, browsing reddit, or facebook while at work. He lets me do my thing and in return i actually get things done because i dont feel his hot breath on my neck 2. He totally promotes an atmosphere of open door. I know i can walk up to him and tell him i have a problem with him or another It person just as much as anyone else. If i think he made a bad call on something or something doesnt feel right about policy, equipment, etc he is really understanding and objective 3. He buys everyone beer all the time. the CEO (who is flipping awesome let me tell you) 1. She has made it her literal (and i mean literal) #1 goal to make our workplace and our employees happy. not just satisfied, but really really truely happy to come to work. I have heard myself more than once mentally saying ""yes, i get to go to work today"". 2. our core values are foster happiness, Practive wowism, create community, innovate, and growth. She takes every one of them seriously and will bend over backwards to make sure all of them happen. 3. we have a prepaid amazon account that anyone can access with no restrictions specifically for sending clients gift whenever we feel like it. I dont get to do this often as i only work internally, but our receptionists regularly send gifts to people for no reason other than it would make the client happy. 4. our bonuses and incentives kind of kick ass. If we make a certain number of cennections (meaning the receptionists do certain things that earn them points..kinda like the monopoly game at mcdonalds) if we reach certain goals we usually get certain things like a schmorgas board of breakfast cereal and cartoons in the breakroom, or an in house sushi go round, or an ice cream party or a trip to hawaii (we have gotten all of those by the way). 5. when we hire employees we like to hire people who represent the culture that we have. We hire based more on attitude than actual skill (although that factors in too, obviously) so ALL the people I work with are happy, and love to make other people happy."