The problem is that both the H1b and L1 visas have problems and are gamed and this is what is probably causing resentment. H1b visas have quotas that run out in one day a year, it means for a company to employ someone with skills they need to throw a bunch of them at this yearly crap shoot and hope they manage to win a visa for one of them. The rest will have to wait another year to try again. This is not how businesses employ, if they find a highly skilled foreign worker with skills they can't find in the US and are even willing to pay him more than anyone in the US, they can't unless they want to play that yearly gamble. A highly skilled employee also don't want to sit around waiting for it, so they'll work for someone else. The L1 visa at least allows large multi national companies to first employ people at one of their foreign offices for a year before carting them over to the US. It's also good in a way to be able to figure out if the employee is as good as he seems on paper and in interviews, even before he gets to the USA. This means most of the better skills probably enter the USA this way, which leaves the H1b visas to consultancies who systematically game the system. They find a lot of young graduate applicants who are willing to wait for the yearly crapshoot and then take all those who win a visa and then employ them and contract them out 'competitively'. The L1 visa can also be systematically gamed, those who don't win an H1b visa could be working for a foreign office of this consultancy in the meantime and then get a transfer to the USA on an L1 visa. I think what needs to happen is that the H1b visa bar should be raised, e.g. a minimum salary, and then the quotas should be spread over a year like they do in the UK. That means companies have more certainty that they can actually bring a skilled worker in, and it would make sure it's a skilled worker and not someone who is just a cheaper worker. Then that would ideally shift the route for most skilled workers to H1b instead of L1 visas, which means L1 visas can be tightened to make sure they are used appropriately too, for example having to have worked for the company for 2 years instead of one and also a minimum salary.