>Labor isn't that interchangeable and markets are far from perfect. Yes, it is if it's manual labor which is what these Walmart workers is. Labor can even be replaced by robots/technologies. As technologies advanced at current rate. Manual labors can and will cease to exist. >What is the other option other than government help? Education! Seriously, a god damn good education that isn't today's education system. No welfare from the govrt. A good education from our govrt. is 100x better than welfare. >Let these people starve and live on the street because they can't afford anything else? That is a great way to ruin a society. Look, No one cried when Car replaced Horse carriage. Just look at the entire Human history. A lot of job die when technology changed and each time a new technology rise. There are dozen of far better paying jobs that come with it. Can you imagine back in 1950 that someone can just do Vlog on YoutTube and make great living doing it. There are hundred of YouTube partners making a good living just making videos and post them on YouTube! Unless you're retarded, your brain will always worth way more than your strength. Human race is a creative race. We are born to think and to create. I believe our society and its people will be better off in a society where we are not bored at our jobs doing manual and repetitive tasks. From personal experiences, I got a co-worker who used to building house for a living. When we work together, he was a tech support and now he does SharePoint support. He told me when he was building house, he was hook on drug/weed/cocaine..etc. You named it and he had tried it beaus the pain from doing manual labors was unbearable that he rely on drugs to take pain away. He told me not one person who work in the house building wasn't hook on alcohol, weed or drug and working in tech support and writing script is great for him because he get to use his brain and no body pain from manual labor. All this have to start with EDUCATION! Which sadly our govrt. suck balls at it!