">Every single grocery store is ""consumerist."" I've been shopping at Whole Foods for (almost) 30 years, and the reason is because Whole Foods has put its research into discovering what and how to serve me, and then delivering. The experience of shopping in a Safeway, Albertson's or the like is ugly, uncomfortable, cold and smelly. They are too big and take forever to get from one item I want to another. They are filled with junk they are trying to trick me into thinking is nutritious. And they've tricked you into thinking they aren't. I mean if your biggest problem in life is the appearance of your store, fine, but underneath all the faux wood and fake-ass decor designed to make you think it's ""rustic and natural "", every last trick in the retail book is being used on you. They do sell junk, it's just packed differently. >What makes you think Whole Foods is in any way MORE deceptive than Walmart, Publix, Costco, etc? Because they responded to a market that wanted **quality** food that could be traced back to it's source? Why wouldn't they respond to that? Because, despite being pretty much the same thing, they make a lot of noise about not being the same so they can charge you a premium. I could trace back food in just about any store I go into, why should WF get a cookie for this? The packages come with labels and even if they don't, the case that held those items did, which means that knowing where your food came from never gets more complicated than asking the staff. To me, those things ARE deceptive, because they're marketing things that everyone does as though it's a unique selling point. Even Walmart has farm to table sourcing. It's in a QR code on their salads. >I'm *thrilled* that it is. That means I can access food that I want and enjoy, and it costs less than it would otherwise. I can buy sugar-free bacon at Whole Foods. YAY! I feel great about that. I can't get that at Safeway. Ever read the label on bacon? There's not a lot of sugar there to start with. >Do you think commercial food producers and other grocery outlets don't collectively FAR outspend Whole Foods to promote less nutritious food that is as inexpensive as possible to produce? That they don't sacrifice quality for profits? Not really, I think whole foods has hoodwinked a whole bunch of millennials into believing the hype that just because they have a farmers market decor that somehow they're better and more pure than other stores. Almost every business in a capitalist economy sacrifices quality for profits. That's how it works. I don't like whole foods because they're tricking gullible people like you into thinking that they give a single shit about you or your health. They don't, they care about the money in your wallet. It's all commercial food, it comes from the same fields."