">No one is to blame other than these antiquated ceos that are so out of touch with the public. If half of your failed aplicants are failing due to mj maybe its time reevaluate your requirements perhaps ? The excuse of saftey concerns is completely misleading bs. I wonder how many current employees most likely use mj regularly. Fact is the general public view mj as more innocuous than alcohol yet these companies use its illegality as a reason to dodge isurance claims when thier employees are injured. Most frustrating part of this article is when he complains about being unable to compete with germany ..you know why ? Because most of Europe doesnt have completely invasive drug testing procedures and instead recruits based on qualification and performance like any good company should. The safety concern is real. A single injury in the workplace can cost upwards of $20K. That's serious money, and if our workplace injury involves multiple people, damaged equipment, and so on, you do the math. It's not a ""bullshit"" concern, it's the potential to be on the hook for serious money when someone impaired by a drug injures himself and needs to go to the hospital or perhaps maims someone else who has the misfortune to be working with him that day. There are workplaces that are dangerous enough when everyone is sober. Adding drugs or alcohol to that mix is pretty much planning on maiming or killing one of your employees. Secondly, basing a policy on what the general public (99% of whom know nothing about pharmaceuticals) think are dangerous drugs is a terrible way to make that sort of decision. People think aspirins are harmless, which is why people overdose and severely damage their livers. If you took a poll, most people wouldn't know that OTC pills can be dangerous. Doesn't change the fact that they can be. People misjudge the dangers of all kinds of things they do everyday. Don't base your opinion on what the general public thinks is true. Base it on facts. As for the illegal thing -- I'm sure you'd willingly turn over all your bank accounts and credit cards to a guy who is actively breaking the law for his own personal pleasure. Such a person would surely never be tempted to bend other laws when it suits them, would never lie on a financial statement or legal document, and would never ever consider stealing from you, right? That's a pretty big risk. In a lot of jobs, the only thing you have is trust because they have the data and you don't. And willingness to break the law shows that you can't be trusted."