I am a web developer by day and financial systems programmer by night. You'll need to learn a compiled language and how to scale data storage if you want to code for finance. I would suggest you learn C# or Java if you really want a decent gig programming in the finance industry. Anybody using PHP and API's to trade isn't somebody you want to work for. It will cause way more headaches than it's worth and you miss opportunities due to speed and efficiency of a language like PHP. You will hit a wall with it at some point (some problem/bug/whatever that can't be solved), and it will really bring you down when you realize it has to be re-done in another language. That being said, PHP is great for the front end (showing people the data and letting them search etc), but the core of it that grabs stats and does the calculations should be in a compiled language. PHP can also be used to quickly test ideas to see if it's worth building a full system that will scale. Basically a rough draft of the program to see if it's going to work out. Why? Well in PHP you can get things done very quickly with very little code because a large amount of libraries and functions exist and it's a very easy language to understand. But it's not efficient, and that's why you create the real deal program using C, C#, or java, or whatever. Scalability of data storage will be important to. You'll need to store a ton of information and you'll need to be able to sort/change/remove/add it quickly. Many databases already exist to do this and I see you know MySQL already a good bit. You'll need to get very familiar with it because the database is going to be your biggest bottleneck in terms of speed. It doesn't matter how well your software works if the database is taking 5 seconds to return a query. Learn to tweak MySQL, learn about MSSQL, look into Firebird. Also learn about at least one NoSQL storage solution (these databases can store a massive amount of information, but they work differently than a sql database does). I would recommend learning MongoDB if you already know PHP. It is a good transition from SQL style databases to Key Storage databases. Hope this helps..