"To address the issue in the title of your question: Many expenses strike at what for all practical purposes are random intervals. Roof starts leaking, car needs repair, etc, don't have a fixed cost every month. Medical expenses can certainly be more extreme than many other expenses, but their nature is the same. And so the way to budget for them is the same: You figure out what your average expenses are over a long period of time. Then you start putting away a little more than this amount every month. Keep putting away until you have a reserve larger than any expense you are likely to get hit with all at once. I have no idea what your particular expenses are, so let me use myself for an example. My medical bills last year were unusually large: about $6,000. I have lousy insurance and a couple of chronic conditions, so my bills are usually maybe $1,000 to $2,000 per year. So I plan on about $150 per month for medical bills. Most insurance policies have an ""out of pocket maximum"". This should be the most you'd ever have to lay out in a year. Mine is $13,000. (I told you my insurance sucks.) So I have an account that I have now built up to $13,000. Worst case, I wipe out that account. In any case, if my bills are that large, the doctors or hospital will normally agree to a payment plan. (I still owe a few hundred on my bills from last year and the hospital is letting me pay it off at $120 per month.) Your question brings up a lot of issues about difficulties of working with insurance and the U.S. medical system in general. I'm not sure if your intent was to get advice on the rest of it all. Simple -- not pleasant, but simple -- answer: If you're insurance is provided by your employer, you're pretty much stuck with the policy that the employer negotiates. I don't know how much you're contributing to premiums, usually the company pays the bulk of it. You could investigate getting a policy on your own, but odds are that any policy you could get for what you're contributing now would be way worse than what you can get through the company. You could always investigate, but I doubt you'll do better. You can talk to HR. If it's a big company, they may have some muscle with the insurance company and could help you out. Failing that, it becomes a political question of how the laws affecting medical care and insurance in the U.S. are set up, and while I have many ideas for how it could be improved, sadly I'm not in a position to do much about it, and I doubt you are either. Unless you have the resources to run for president."