"Just for clarification, my perspective on education background is from a front office associate at a BB that interacts with the traders and analysts at other BB's and HF's daily.. many of whom have become good friends. Take it for what you will. It's not my role to tell you which is right for you but I can definitely give an honest perspective of which is far more common. > There were 11,620 people who passed L3 last year Doesn't take into account the number of these that were already MBA holders (quite a larger percent as MBA has become less competitive and a CFA is required to demonstrate the quantitative capacity of a MBA holder). This is a huge factor in the skew of your numbers as MBA's have become dime a dozen, MBA holders are now being expected to hold a MS or get a CFA to establish that their quantitative skills are qualified for working on modern day wall st front office roles. > and became charter holders Wrong. Passing L3 doesn't automatically make you a charterholder. You need the 48 months of approved experience in portfolio management, investment analysis, or market research. These roles are becoming more and more exclusive to target graduates and mba holders so the likelihood of a CFA charterholder already having a MBA is actually increasing. > Now lets just take the top 25 MBA programs, that'd be 460 people/class graduating to reach this number. Actual numbers are MUCH lower than this. Clearly you don't realize the graduate enrollment levels at target schools. Lets take a look at full time enrollment (meaning 1/2 graduates each year) for the top 10 for finance: * Wharton: 1,669 * UChi: 1,160 * NYU: 784 * Columbia: 1,264 * MIT: 804 * Stanford: 803 * Harvard: 1,808 * UC Berkley: 492 * UCLA: 750 * Northwestern: 1,201 That's averaging 536 graduates/year per school at the top 10 schools for finance. To argue that there are no graduates from UNC, Duke, CMU, USC, Emory, Cornell, Georgetown, Dartmouth, Yale, IU, Rice, Vanderbuilt, etc on Wall St would be ignorance in its purest form. > Trust me, I'm a big fan of the CFA, You might be a fan but clearly you don't know much about the exam.. keep reading and you'll see why > but I know some really dumb people who are charter holders because they learned to memorize a test. Memorize a test? You can def argue that for L1.. Not for L2 or L3. There's a reason there's such a collective failure amongst candidates that pass 1 and move on to L2 and L3. L2 requires critical scenario understanding of the concepts more than the formulas itself. It tests your ability to understand complex and unique FRA (such as repatriated foreign exhange delta's on cash flows).. Not just memorizing a formula and regurgitating. L3 is even more removed from just formulas as requiring detailed essay responses. 3 hour section with 10-15 multipart essay questions?.. yeah sounds like formula memorizing. /s > These same people would never get admitted to a top 10, no less 25 MBA program. This is an irrelevant point. There are plenty of top 10 and top 25 mba program grad's that wouldn't pass the CFA either. Both emphasize different skillsets. Front office wall st is becoming more and more geared towards MS holders and CFA charters.. many MBA's holders and MBA programs lack the quantitative focus to take these roles and are being denied. >One thing I will give you, there are WAY too many MBAs in general (partially because of all the part-time, night-time, executive ones).. But an MBA is very different then a CFA in that its banded by school and category. Absolutely. That reinforces my entire point that MBA's are dime a dozen. What are we arguing about again?.. MBA's are very different than a CFA in that even within target schools, they each emphasize on entirely different skills. MIT Finance mba grads are far more likely to possess strong quantitative than say a Harvard MBA. The reason is that the CFA is a standard qualification that focuses entirely on quantitative capacity.. it is like a MS in the sense that its a mile deep and a foot wide whereas MBA's are a foot deep and a mile wide. > Everyone with a CFA has the same CFA; however, a Wharton degrees sure carries a lot more clout than a UMD one.. You're right. But a CFA isn't meant to be comparable and interchangeable with a Wharton degree. The CFA's closest comparison is a MS in quantitative/computational finance. So if you're trying to say CFA is less valuable than a MBA it's apples and oranges. You never will see a job require a MBA or CFA.. the CFA will always be listed on a job role as ""preferred MS/CFA"". Try comparing CFA against a MS from Columbia or Carnegie Mellon MSCF grad and you might have valid results."