"And he pays taxes which contribute to that, in an absolute dollar amount he probably pays more than most reddiors do combined and since his income is from a company and not capital gains his tax rate is definitely above 30% thus providing for the next generation. He's not suggesting that he shouldn't pay any taxes at all, just not INCREASED taxes or liabilities. Those roads, schools, police were all funded just fine before this debate started--- not to mention these are all local taxes and the increased liabilities we are talking about are federally mandated, not locally. We have a spending problem not a revenue problem, and the solution begins with gutting military spending and it ends with a very serious discussion and long term look at social security and medicare. It's only when the government wants military AND those other services that private individuals and industries are squeezed with additional overhead cost liabilities. Thing is this guy has done what he has done for 40+ years and has seen 5-10 presidential administrations and the message and policy goals change everytime. His resistance is related to additional burdens put on him and his company. It is then his responsibilty to decide whether that extra weight is worth it.. plain and simple.. just as you would do.. just as any company would and does do. This particular event has been sensationalized by his own and observer's emotions, but I don't think he's in the wrong here. Most of the people criticizing him will never come anywhere close to contributing in tax revenue the amount that he does, not to mention jobs. We need more passionate people sparking debate, but unfortunately so many people, on reddit especially feel the economy, government and business has not served them well, but the government is the only one offering them the ""promise"" of a tiny bit better. Private industry cannot yield confidence or national attention the way the government can, but the government is notoriously inefficent at distibuting and administrating programs. But the net result is people will vote for a populist agenda such as letting young people stay on their parent's health insurance, while living at home, when what they really want is a $75,000 - 100,000/year job and the freedom that brings to go after your ambitions."