Movie going (actual # tickets sold) [climaxed in 2002](http://www.the-numbers.com/market/) and the theater market has only been kept afloat since then by increasing ticket prices. However, the more ticket prices increase, it creates a cycle where it's less attractive to go to the movies and so they have to increase ticket prices again. Movie theaters typically cede most of the opening week revenue to the studio so they need some minimum foot traffic so a percent of audience buys the high margin popcorn and drinks. Movie studios got greedier, wanting to take the movie out of the theater ever faster to multiple revenue-generating venues (Star Wars was in the theater a year+.. now all but the biggest movies are in, what, a few weeks?), costs to A/C-heat buildings rise, big TVs are cheaper every year, netflix, etc. Not to mention the tablet, which I watch netflix on more than a big TV.. and the rise of the formula superhero movie. Pure no-value-added Theaters are on the way out in any areas with decent internet. They arose in a time of touring stage entertainment and displaced many a live performance with this new moving picture tech. Now they are being displaced by tech just the same. A littering of restaurant theaters and imax or next tech theaters and the like will stick around in 25 years as attractions but it just won't be the same scale. You can liken this to how consoles eventually killed the video game arcades, even with shittier hardware. It's happening to retail market crashing down, and it happened to small chain book stores, CD stores, and a bunch of other categories, etc. No surprise to anyone that pays attention and thinks the next tech/economical step. In the end, it's really up to studios to decide if the movie theater is a relic worth keeping and only if they work jointly, and in the end it still might just buy them a few years til it sinks. I don't think it's worth keeping. My preferred local one is one of the better ones out of 4-5 (3 are small time with limited screens) and yet even they haven't replaced the carpeting in 15 years and it smells like piss in the summer. This is in one of the richer areas of the country, not some ghetto, not going to the movies for that bonus whiff.