"Plusprinters.com is offering Custom Archive Boxes with following Description. 1. Custom Archive Boxes is a great solution for different things at one place. 2. Custom Archive Boxes is available by Plusprinters.com in very cheap prices. 3. Custom Archive Boxes is provided with No Die and Plate Charges 4. Any Custom Archive Box can be made With Custom Size and Style 5. Our team consists of experienced Designers and we are going to fulfill your printing requirements With Free Design Support. 6. We are offering your Printing With High quality offset printing. 7. Providing Free Worldwide Shipping. 8. We are going to fulfill our clients requirement with Quick Turnaround. 9. We are providing free of Cost Lamination on which Lamination is necessary part of printing. 10. Your participation in our company is appreciated.You are aware you are on /r/business, right? Are you aware of how much Walmart pays in taxes? Are you aware that they currently pay more than most other mass retailers? Are you aware of how low Walmart's margins are? A small increase in expenses in a very low margin industry can be devastating. Walmart exists to make a profit, the point of businesses. I live in western Illinois, and for low skill jobs, Walmart is actually one of the best places to work. Especially the warehouse workers. They pay better than the low end factory work, better than every mom and pop around here, a lot better than Dollar General, and are paying what is in this market a livable wage. Maybe not for a single person trying to support a family of 4 or have a lot of luxuries, but it is livable.> You have the same problem with soybeans (Geraldes Castanheira, 2013), it's a problem with production that affects all agriculture. You aren't getting it. Animals don't grow out the ground like plants do. You need to grow plants and then feed them to the animals to grow. The very first sentence in the soy article you sent me is The increase in soybean production as a source of protein and oil is being stimulated by the growing demand for livestock feed.."". You cannot win an efficiency fight in this, in the same way you cannot win an argument saying it is more efficient to create wine than it is to create grapes. > The point is that we can double the earth population without running out of food, and then we can add another 40% in the US by simply not throwing away the food, then we can optimize land use, and not all land is suitable for growing crops so we get more food by using it for meat. Arguing to continue proven damaging behaviours because we can ""afford it"" is trying to rationalize illogical behaviour, its like saying I can smoke because I'm still young and then when I'm older I can increase my healthy food intake and exercise to offset it. > An optimized scenario includes meat as not all land is suitable to farming, and you have seafood and wildlife. An optimized scenario is purely plant based. That land you speak of that is not suitable for farming - it may provide physical space to house the animals, but where is the food the animals need to grow coming from? Don't even get started into ocean depletion and what we've done to that resource. And why move on to wildlife if we have no requirements for meat in the first place? > At this point being vegan is more like being religious. This is actually an intriguing statement. From my experience its actually the opposite. I grew up in a religious environment, blindly believed and thought nothing of it until my teenage years when I started to question it and realized it made no sense. Reflecting back, you wonder how you were ever so naive. That is the power (and danger) of being surrounded by people who are all raised the same way and who all act blindly out of custom and tradition. You feel comfortable believing it, because everyone else does, you get positive reinforcement from the group when you defend it, because people want to feel they are right and do not want to confront what it may mean to be wrong. My change in diet resulted from a similar experience, I'd been raised in a family where a meal wasn't complete unless it had meat in it. I was told in school and by my doctor that I needed milk for strong bones, meat for muscles, and fish for my brain. I'd heard of vegans, thought of them like a cult, or circus freaks because thats what I'd heard. I went to vegetarian restaurant one day with a friend and started a conversation with a vegan family there, they were vibrant and clearly incredibly healthy, they were logical and intelligent, they had 3 kids who had never touched an animal product and in that moment my lifelong belief system started to shatter. Went home and started doing research on living without eating animal products. It became very clear very quickly that it was business, just like religion, I'd been systematically taught to think a certain way, and as long as I kept thinking that way - it was good for the respective businesses."