>Well, first off, the roads are more than just hobbies. They really do go places. A lot of the roads in my area would be unprofitable, and people live down those roads. What happens when a company decides that road is too expensive to maintain but decides to keep ownership? The people have to move? Yes, if people want to live out somewhere that is inefficient, other people who do not choose to live there shouldn't have to subsidize them. I say this having grown up 17 miles from the nearest town in a completely rural environment. >It doesn't have to, but it's unrealistic to expect that they won't take a profit from it. but do you really think that if a company has a monopoly, they're going to charge you the bare minimum they can? If you have no choice but to pay tolls or for driving passes for certain cities, and you can only get them from a single company, what motivation does that company have to keep them affordable and readily available? They're going to do like any company would and find that point of maximum profitability between cost of permit and number of permits. Is this not a similar situation we currently have with electricity, trash, and various other pieces of our infrastructure? People are not being gouged because there is some level of regulation, which is necessary for a functional society. I'm not necessarily advocating a completely free market as monopolies are dangerous, I just think the government's role is to big. >Then there's the whole reality that you will STILL pay for roads you don't use. If one company owns multiple roads, they're going to charge you enough money to expand roads, to fix up other dilapidated roads, etc. More profitable roads will be used to offset less profitable roads, etc. Basically, if there's a new neighborhood, and they build a road to it.. if you've been paying that company, they're using your money to build that road. Not really. I'm paying to use a certain stretch of road right now. What the company chooses to do with that money is their issue.