"I think you should evaluate the value of these so-called ""penny auction"" websites very carefully. Going to a random site, madbid .com, (which is British with UK prices, but it works just the same with US prices) they claim that someone has bought an iPod Touch 64GB for £21.18. It is £249 directly from Apple. Sold for £21.18 means there were 2118 ""bids"". I'd have to log in to their site to find the cost of a ""bid"" for packages, but you can multiply the cost of a single ""bid"" by 2,118, add another £21.18, and you'll know what all ""bidders"" trying to receive this item paid - I'll bet the total is substantially more than £249. People taking part in these scams obviously convince themselves that they are the ""clever"" ones who will get an item cheaply. Apart from the possibility that a single ""bidder"" can easily make more bids than the value of the item, if you think you are more clever than everyone else, you are kidding yourself. (If you think you are indeed more clever than everyone else, go ahead and donate your money to these companies). The ""packages"" are most likely designed to give you the false impression that you get some value for money. Years ago when I checked a single bid was £1, but in bigger packages the bids would cost say 50 pence. They also want many bidders to make sure the number of bids will be high (although there is nothing other than the website's honesty that prevents them from automatically adding bids if an item would otherwise sell too cheap). Just to clarify: These are not auction sites. In an auction, the highest bidder pays the price they bid, usually plus some commission (on eBay, the commission is paid by the seller), and gets the goods, while everyone else keeps their money. In this ""auction"", every bid costs money, and by increasing the bid by one penny each time they make sure there are usually thousands of bids. (They also offer the products at a ""reduced"" price if you don't ""win"" the auction; the reduced price is substantially higher than buying from the manufacturer or any reputable retailer directly)."