Yeshiva University & all the High Schools connected to them, my boys former Yeshiva - Yeshiva Derech Hatorah, Yeshiva Chofetz Chaim, Yeshiva Chaim Berlin, and plenty of girls schools. I mean there are many many many more Yeshivas/Jewish Orthadox schools that teach what you are calling 'modern concepts'. You are right that there are many that have an 'elitist' attitude there are many who are absolutely not like that. I also find the elitist attitude is more about the fact that many Orthadox Jews dont have to have any interaction outside of the Jewish community. They can go to Jewish Universities, work at Jewish Companies, live in predominantly Jewish neighborhood, and mostly don't need to interact with anything outside of the Jewish community. I do find it wrong because while you can live a life of Torah Values we are supposed to be a light upon other nations and that requires some form of interaction. Also this is fucking America. We need to be a part of this nation. Doesn't mean we need to not be Orthadox, but Jews need to show that they are invested in the communities, in politics, and the like. But then again you gets whats happening with that school board (which I'm on the side that the state is really screwing with that school district with funding from what I have read up on the case) so it is a catch 22. As as for not embracing modern ways, there is much about political correctness and progressive attitudes that are going far over the top. I find that Orthodox Judaism viewpoint on men & women are actually pretty slanted towards women (and always have been), that Jewish religious law only applies to Jews and not non-Jews (so all that stuff that the Christians keep saying oh the old testament says this and blah blah blah) according to Jews it doesn't apply to non-Jews (only the 7 Laws of Noah apply to the Gentiles of the World according to Judaism). Also by following the Torah, sorry but that doesn't mean we are a part of the modern civilization. If one doesn't like following Orthodox Judaism then don't do so - no one is forcing you with a gun to your head. Most Orthodox Jews I know are respectful of Conservative & Reform Jews. I know where we live it is very much like that. Two of my kids are best friends with kids whose parents belong to a Conservative Synagogue. Orthodox Jews are a part of every type of career that is out there, they don't force their ideology onto others, don't try to convince people to convert, don't tell you that you are going to hell if you don't follow their teachings, and the biggest things that set Jews apart are dietary laws, following the sabbath, and all of our holidays - and how does that hurt anyone or make us not 'modern'? Yes there are many who are not like what I wrote above but the majority are not like what you wrote