To be honest, if you have to ask tips about taking over your family business, someone really dropped the ball on showing you the business in the first place. Anyway, learn yourself some basic bookkeeping/accounting. Money management/tax handling will be something you will need to know, even if you have staff to handle this for you. Learn the specific product/service/whatever you offer. Nothing can be worse than having no clue what your product/service does and you're running it. Shadow the family member(s) that are running it now. Find out what they do throughout their day involving the business. Whoever your replacing is the one you should focus on most. Also make sure you understand your branding, quality, and price measures. Any basic business class will teach you that branding, quality, and price are the three factors of a business's success. Where you fail in one, you take up in another. For instance, Apple has horrible prices. Extremely expensive. How do they make it up? Well, quality is about on par with other products (since they largely come from the same source as competitors), but the iPhone and iPod are well known brands (far more recognized than the smartphone and MP3 player that they are, instead called by the specific product name). Same with Kleenex. No one asks for a facial tissue. They ask for a Kleenex. That's strong branding that connects the consumer to the product. Anyway, just make sure you know where your points fall on those three lines in your business. Improve as you can, but understand where your main fall back is. Best prices, quality, or most well known? Lastly, don't doubt that you can do this. Similarly, don't overcompensate. Your friends will all ask for deals and discounts and you'd do best to deny them in most cases. Family will always want a cut and will probably get nasty in some cases (mattering by how you're set up). When dealing with employees, remember that they work for you: You're not friends. Nothing destroys a staff faster than the boss trying to be friends with everyone and ends up promoting the schmoozer. Eh, not sure what else to toss out. That covers a lot of bases, but I'm sure I can think of more later.