This was an interesting little article, thanks for sharing it. However I'm a bit perplexed by part of the analysis. The authors give some fairly substantial hints that the value they are providing is *not* the standard deviation, but most of the respondents miss these hints. The answers for the annualized rate also suggest that many of the respondents knew how to compute this, given the standard deviation. The authors then go on to say that basically all of the respondents gave the correct mathematical definition of the standard deviation. Then they go on to say that, > Whatever reason there was for their error, it did not result from ignorance of the concept. But this strikes me as both disingenuous and incorrect. On the contrary the most likely explanation would seem to be that most of them were not aware of the concept of 'mean absolute deviation', probably because they had either never learned it, or never had occasion to apply it. I agree that people - even highly trained people - tend to be very bad at intuiting probability - just look up the Monty Hall Problem for a primer on that. But I strongly disagree with the notion that this paper provides any evidence of this tendency, as there seems to be a much stronger case for ignorance. This alternative is further supported by the authors' assertion that, > debriefings with respondents revealed that they rarely had an immediate understanding of the error when it was pointed out to them. again, suggesting ignorance as the most - not least - likely culprit. I also found it odd that they asked the respondents specifically about the standard deviation definition, but not about the mean absolute deviation, despite the fact that the latter is almost certainly more obscure. To that last bit, I just went through the textbooks I have on hand, and this concept is not mentioned in either of the undergraduate statistics/probability textbooks I own, nor in the one undergraduate finance textbook I have. I'm in machine learning and compsci, not finance, but it is mentioned in just one of the four graduate-level texts I have on applied statistics and probability - once on one page in a textbook on Bayesian statistics. And the wikipedia page is terrible. In short, while this is an interesting little experiment and write-up, I think the analysis and conclusions are inappropriate and not supported by the evidence the authors provide. That doesn't mean that their conclusions are incorrect, just that I disagree with the notion that this paper corroborates them. ..This response ended up being way long..