"EDIT: TLDR I Can promise you they will lose sight again because it was never regained in the first place. They aren't the first company to do it [and it wont be the last time.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ypUz1WYens) The company I work for (Office Depot) is doing this practice. We have insane goals that no one can reach, and often more daily responsibilities than an individual can finish. When anyone tries to speak up against it at any level the reply is ""we dont want excuses"" or ""dont be negative"". Completely ignoring any issues presented to them. Instead rather than problem solving those who bring issues to light are treated as having created the problem. We (the company) [got in trouble a while back for our ""PC Tune Up""](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6cEfYibkHjM) because the tool didn't accurately portray the condition of a customers system. If you ran the tool it would ask ""do you have x or y symptoms (pop ups, slow, etc)"" and if you selected yes it would tell you that it found possible infection symptoms. It didn't make it clear that the scan didn't detect this. They then paired this with techs that weren't trained in any way other than selling using the tools diagnosis and unrealistic sales goals. When you couldn't reach numbers you were eventually replaced. If the store didn't reach numbers it came down on management (who would fake numbers by returning items and reselling them as service sku's). Every tech I knew complained about the awful diagnostic tool, and the unrealistic goals and what they were causing. Many of us refused to use the tool on the grounds of it being misleading and immoral, depot responded by requiring a minimum amount of logged uses of the tool per week. Depot did nothing but treat it as negativity until it was brought up in the news after a disgruntled tech let the word out. Then suddenly it's ""were sorry"" acting like they had no idea what was going on and the roll out of a new tool that simply had a remote technician give the same diagnostic. (which has since changed again). We still have the same push for sales goals and attach rate (push for office, service, and square trade sales) and zero accountability. They train no one, create goals, and act surprised when they figure out how people are meeting these goals. Nothing has actually changed in a relevant way, the same core problem still exists they've only changed the face. These issues are prevalent in the company as we have minimal payroll for staffing at all times and high expectations with poor tools across the board. I've watched many people get fired for not meeting goal expectations and many more quit. I've watched the people who could meet the goals praised only to be fired a short time later when it's found they only met the goal through cheating of some sort. Every single strategy corporate tries has still followed this same format of over promise and under deliver. They pile more on while cutting resources constantly and they still haven't learned the lesson that the result is the same every time regardless of game plan. The best part is the higher ups all switch out every 3 - 6 months it seems. I've had at least 4 District managers in the short time i've been here, multiple RVP's and LP's. Everyone comes in for 6 months then jumps ship to somewhere more stable. Meanwhile we cut costs to appear more profitable. The whole retail side of the company is a sham."