It would seem that the best method of bank robbery involves an inside man or woman, someone in the bank who can provide information about where the largest amount of cash is and when to hit the bank. $20,000 does not seem to be worth the risk of jail time. I'd say anything south of $100,000 per bank robber probably wouldn't be worth it, and getting that amount of cash would require more than a simple walk-in, pull a gun, empty a register robbery. The trick would either be proving an iron-clad alibi for the inside person or the group of robbers collectively contributing to the cost of that person disappearing. At the very least, that individual should get the largest share of the score. Escape is undoubtedly the biggest issue. One would need immediate transportation from the scene of the crime which could leave the area, then be dumped (fully scrubbed for prints, DNA, etc.) then the group would all go their separate ways. Regardless, I don't think it's worth the risk or the effort. First off, when you rob a bank the greedy bankers doesn't lose the money, it's paid by the FDIC, which is founded by taxpayers, so what you're doing is taking money that might otherwise be spent on social services for people who need them. Moreover, it's expensive and time-consuming to launder large amounts of money. If you manage to get $120,000 out of a robbery, which is hugely optimistic, that number would take years and a significant fraction of the take just to clean for personal use. And the risk of not only prison but possibly death seems rather extreme when compared to the admittedly more dull alternative of finding and holding down career. I think there are probably more efficient criminal methods of obtaining large quantities of money/wealth, too. Illegal narcotics, for example, are a $300 billion a year industry. While it's not the easiest business to get into, one imagines, the potential for someone who isn't just some moron off the street to climb the cartel ladder could be significant and could lead to a high income. There are significant risks, of course, and there's a serious moral question as to whether selling illegal drugs is acceptable or not, but if you're morally flexible or have the opinion that illegal narcotics are not something that should be prohibited, it could work. And there's always money in the banana stand.