Thanks for your reply. I had heard of utilitarian principles used to justify slavery and felt like a dick so I spent some time on Wikipedia familiarizing myself with it before replying. Following quotes are from Wikipedia, unless stated otherwise Link - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism > Utilitarianism is a theory in normative ethics holding that the proper course of action is the one that maximizes overall happiness. Sounds reasonable Seems there are two schools of thought >Act utilitarianism maintains that an action is right if it maximises utility; >rule utilitarianism maintains that an action is right if it conforms to a rule that maximises utility. It is something that has been criticized by both Karl Marx as well as Pope John Paul II so it can't be all bad :) >Act and rule utilitarians differ in how they treat human rights themselves. Under rule utilitarianism, a human right can easily be considered a moral rule. Act utilitarians, on the other hand, do not accept human rights as moral principles in and of themselves, but that does not mean that they reject them altogether: first, most act utilitarians, as explained above, would agree that acts such as enslavement and genocide always cause great unhappiness and very little happiness; second, human rights could be considered rules of thumb so that, although torture might be acceptable under some circumstances, as a rule it is immoral; and, finally, act utilitarians often support human rights in a legal sense because utilitarians support laws that cause more good than harm. I think the above means I would be ~~an act~~ a rule utilitarian, if I was one. However, the page linked to something else which is what I use in my decisions, most of the time - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decision_theory >Decision theory in economics, psychology, philosophy, mathematics, and statistics is concerned with identifying the values, uncertainties and other issues relevant in a given decision, its rationality, and the resulting optimal decision. It is closely related to the field of game theory as to interactions of agents with at least partially conflicting interests whose decisions affect each other. However, you brought up an excellent point. If every relation is reduced to a balance sheet, the world would be a sad place indeed. I will think more deeply about the moral consequences of my thinking, especially on the topic of healthcare since obviously, I have not thought enough. Your comment deeply appreciated.