> What they pay is the market wage by definition. How are we defining market? Retailers? If so, they pay below market. Other retailers pay more. Try and make that fact stick for a second before you reply. If you define Wal-Mart as it's own market, sure, they pay market wages by definition. They are, after all, the largest retailer in the USA. > In which case, why don't they work for one of those other employers? Low turnover at those other employers. Workers who are happy leave the company less, thus, less openings for new workers. > In what way does that force people to work for Wal-Mart? You act like the only way to get a job is to work for them. If you do not like the job that Wal-mart offers you, there is no compulsion to accept it. Again, real world vs theory. Look at small towns across the country, where Wal-Mart plops down a superstore right at the annex of the biggest few towns in the area. Mainstreets can't compete, but the people still live there. A lot them, all their lives. Those shop owners know how to do retail, and guess what jobs open up in their areas? Choosing to move somewhere else and uproot your whole life isn't an easy thing to do for those folks. Taking a job at Wal-Mart to support your family doesn't seem like a terrible option to a lot of them at the time, when it happens. Heck, people actually get excited about Wal-Mart, thinking they could make manager one day and what have you. So they do choose to work for Wal-Mart, but really, they have no other choice. They could just become homeless, yes, that is a choice they could make. Is it a realistic one? No. > Workers are not essentially the same - if they were, they would tend to have the same wage. Didn't you just get done telling me that market wages are set by the market? You honestly believe that the workers at Costco are inherently more capable of the retail work Costco does and therefore don't work at Wal-Mart, because of their superior skillset? I worked at Wal-Mart briefly, out of high school. I was a great worker when I got hired, because I worked for the store remodel team out of Arkansas and they trained me very well. Then I started working in electronics and had very bad training by the outgoing manager, so I was viewed as a bad worker by the new manager of that department. Was I bad worker? Not at all, I just wasn't trained well. Wal-Mart has excellent and fully capable workers in some stores, some areas, etc, and terrible ones in others. They have a revolving cast of managers, and a lot of the capable ones leave the second something better comes along. So you have this slipshod management style and training that can be anything, and yes, the more competent people leave. Why? **Because Wal-Mart pays below market wages and benefits.** You can find good and bad workers at all retail stores, some with excellent training and some without. Wal-Mart is a bottom feeder but they employ plenty of good people who just have no other options. You seem to have this notion that the more 'productive' workers are readily apparent. why look at this fine lad, he's 20% more productive than the rest of your workers. It doesn't work like that in real life. Sorry.