"> Reminder from history: Bill Clinton signed a contract with NK and even gave them nuclear reactors ""to prevent NK from having nuclear weapons!"". Yes, that was a *brilliant* move by Clinton! North Korea started its wildly-expensive nuclear weapons program *after* Clinton's Pentagon war-gamed a nuclear first strike on North Korea. So in response, the North Koreans sought a nuclear deterrence. Clinton, realizing he pushed North Korea too far, back tracked and came up with that brilliant agreement. The agreement sought to have North Korea replace their old, heavy-water nuclear reactors with US ""light water"" nuclear reactors that are much more resistant to being used to generate weapons-grade nuclear material. And not only did the deal have a non-proliferation angle, but it locked North Korea into buying reactor support from US/western countries, thus giving us more influence/power over North Korea. North Korea was eager to do the deal, because they saw it as creating better relations with the US, and more importantly, with their new reactors North Korea saw themselves being an energy supplier to China's massive economy. But the problem was that North Korea needed to cover an ""energy shortfall"" -- a shortage created by the time gap between shutting down their old heavy-water reactors and the time the new light-water reactors would be built. So Clinton's agreement covered that gap by shipping North Korea fuel to generate electricity until the new reactors were done. But then George Bush seized power in the rigged 2000 presidential election. One of Bush's first acts was to stop the fuel shipments to North Korea and thus break the Clinton agreement. North Korea, needing electricity ASAP, logically re-started their heavy-water reactors. And then Bush trashed North Korea for restarting their reactors. When Bush attacked Iraq in a cold-blooded war of aggression based on lies and called North Korea part of some looney-tune ""Axis of Evil,"" North Korea responded by withdrawing from the Non-Proliferation Treaty and developed nuclear weapons. North Korea's response was sane and logical. > Do you really believe that Iran will not have nuclear weapons? Multiple Iranian religious leaders have stated that WMD are an insult to god. Considering that the legitimacy of Iran's government is based on religion, there would be serious political blowback if they changed that position. Given that Iran has *repeatedly* called for a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East -- but the US and Israel refuses that call -- it would not surprise me at all if Iran developed a nuke. Under any concept of ""defense"" or ""nuclear deterrence"" Iran is fully justified in developing nukes. If we don't like that, we should abide by international law and the Non-Proliferation Treaty and *abolish our and every other country's nuclear weapons.* Edit: Typos."