"> You're the one arguing for a change away from the status quo here, to something that not only is entirely untested but requires everyone to do it at once AND everyone to think just like you do for it to 'work properly'. It's nothing but hypotheticals, yet you're saying the burden of proof is on me to 'prove' that your hypothetical scenarios won't work? I don't have to prove anything when I'm advocating for not being a part of your system. I am in no way advocating that you be forced into mine. I'm not advocating any positive action towards you, nor anyone else. Simply arguing against the status quo doesn't place a burden of proof upon me. > That's not a thing you can do, you can't prove a negative. Then don't make that claim. Easy as that. I laid out how the market could deal with a court system, and you devolved into making unsupported claims. When we get back to what does make sense, we can have productive conversation. It's not productive to use baseless conjecture and unsupported claims. > All i can do is say look around at all the free markets and stateless populations we have now living in perfect harmony with each other and the environment. Oh wait. They don't exist. Because they don't work in the real world. Wrong. It does not follow that because something does not exist that it does not work. > Any advantage is going to be used to bludgeon the competition with until you have a monopoly/quasi-state You have no evidence to support this. Why are you reverting to this nonsense? > it relies on the population being informed in and believing in the system enough to make a conscious effort to not buy the cheaper goods at the store with the bad business practices, or potentially drive further to a different store if it's the store doing the bad practice! No, it does not. This is a straw man. A voluntary society doesn't preclude the possibility of people buying bad food or something like that. It doesn't even preclude the possibility of third-party assurances to prevent bad food. It just doesn't have a built-in monopoly on assurance services that you have to use in order to buy/sell. > So you're saying there can never be a truly free market then? No. People buy and sell freely all of the time. Ever bought something from Craigslist? Ebay? Silk Road? I'd say those are pretty much free markets. > You had little kids getting their arms ripped off by textile looms for fucks sake, people working 14 hour days. But it made more money than working in the fields, so #worth, right? You're conveniently leaving out how kids worked, people toiled all day and still starved to death as the alternative up until industrialization allowed a better quality of life. It's not like they could have just passed a fucking law and mandated a 40 hour week and instantly had prosperity. It was because they did grind their way through the Industrial Revolution that we're able to live lives of leisure and prosperity. If you think that government action can get people out of poverty by decree then tell it to the third world countries that are still developing. I'm sure they'd be all ears. > Because the pooling of vast resources for disaster relief is something that states do? That they do it doesn't mean that it couldn't happen without the state on a voluntary basis. The funding for all of these programs combined is easily less than, what, a quarter of the government's budget? If the people who made this same objection put their money where their mouth is, there would be no shortage of funding. People from the left and the right alike claim that they want these things, so which is it? Are you telling me that there are just millions and millions of people who virtue signal about humanitarian efforts? > This is my point, neither you nor I have any evidence to base this off rather than a tendency for people to be utter bastards to each other, looking at history. You're postulating that if all governments dissipated in a puff of smoke, there wouldn't be huge conflict in the resulting power vacuum? Actually I don't think that immediately destroying governments will create the best outcomes, as that usually happens violently and results in someone wanting to fill the roles performed by government. Instead, I think that based upon history individuals are less likely to be violent when they aren't acting on behalf of governments, and they can and will find alternatives to the state that will replace it over time *if they are not violently stopped.* Here are some examples: 1. I would rather be entirely left alone by the state police agents and allowed to use my own private security. I would not be taxed for state agents and would instead pay out of pocket. This would likely lower the cost since they would be interested in preventing losses rather than busting people for parking tickets, speeding tickets, drug offenses, civil asset forfeiture, etc. Would you not agree that this is a superior model? 2. I would rather have private large-scale defense since it would not be involved in international wars of aggression. I would not be taxed and would instead pay out of pocket. All else equal, this would be less expensive and less dangerous since resources would only be used for defense. Would you not agree that this is a superior model? 3. I would rather have a private system of healthcare rather than a government one, being free to not pay into Medicare/Medicaid. This, along with eliminating certificates of need, monopolization by the AMA, eliminating IP protections, and the like would lower the cost more than nationalization would and would also allow providers to better align with my preferences. Would you not agree that this is a superior system? > Yeah, good one. There weren't any Anarchists in a position to do any of that. Great straw man. Actually the purported left-wing ""anarchists"" in Spain did carry out what is called the Red Terror. I put that in quotes because I do not agree with their methods or their ideology. Change must be done through the market, not through violence. > WHY is the burden of proof on the 'statists'? It's the Anarchists who are arguing for the change in the status Quo. Because appeals to tradition are not rational arguments and anarchists are not advocating for positive action against you. Statists are arguing that others be subject to their government. If a person is trying to argue against his own enslavement, he wouldn't have the burden of proof simply because he had been enslaved for some time. > You're the one making the claim that it would be a better system here with nothing to back it up On the contrary, I do have something to back it up: the market responds better to consumer preferences on an individual level than governments do. If you disagree with me on healthcare and want a collective system, the market can put you with other like-minded individuals and me with those who share my views. A state cannot. > why do we have states right now? You're conflating violence and efficiency. That's like saying ""if kids have such great ideas, why are they still living under their parent's rule?"" It's not because the ideas are bad, it's because the parents are keeping them there. States don't compete, they rule with violence. The notion of creating a market for violence to stop rule by violence is contradictory."