Cryptocurrency is undoubtedly at the peak of Gartner hype cycle, but it very well could revolutionise the way we use currency for our daily needs in the future. Stay with me on this… At present, cryptocurrency appears no more than a speculation that is sugar-coated by individuals who have vested interest in it. However, if we overlook this excitement, the actual use of cryptocurrency is mind-boggling. Suppose you had a mid-life crisis and went on a journey to the middle of the Earth to find where humans supposedly originated from, and you met and connected with a local coffee farmer named Razaq in a very remote part of Ethiopia. He invited you for an evening coffee and you obliged, and six months later you yearned for this same coffee whilst you were having another wave of existential thoughts in your penthouse that overlooked the urban jungle. Suddenly, you remembered that Razaq had a cheap but functional smartphone with a Bitcoin wallet, and afterwards you communicated with him on WhatsApp and decided to enter in a transaction with him. Razaq is delighted with this technology, but mainly because he does not have to travel 100 km to-and-fro the nearest city where his bank is located, and he is also happy that he can send a sack of coffee beans to his friend who lives in a faraway land, and all he needs to do is hand over the coffee sack to delivery truck en route the shipping port. Ultimately, saving Razaq lot of his precious time and resources. Now use this one example and multiply it by hundreds of millions of people around the world who have a very remote access to a ‘bank’, but have an access to a basic smartphone – imagine the possibility of connecting people like Razaq to the ‘internet’ world and having a seamless cross-border trade finance transaction using currency that is not controlled by any government. Like many others, I am keen to see the developments of cryptocurrency in the coming years, but for now I remain sceptical. That said, I am more interest in the countless opportunities that will be unlocked by the very technology that is fundamental to all the cryptocurrencies; the Blockchain. Crytocurrency is one branch of Blockchain technology which has proved useful. There are million other possibilities which I'm sure will benefit many industries in the coming decade, and I, for one, am very excited.