> You fully support the free market. Yep >What the fuck is the point of having a job(s!) which don't support you? Good question. I wouldn't work one and neither should anybody else. Thats how the market knows to raise wages or automate these jobs >I support ending corporate welfare. Hey, we agree on something! >I think this country has the means to support anyone willing to work as hard as her to make sure she and her kids have the very basics. Yet you failed to address my point. Ill make it easy for you. Do you think random worker should get more money because they have a kid? What about 2? 5? What if they have the kid after you already hired them for a lower wage? >Define value for me usefulness of something. A piece of wood has a low value. A piece of wood I cut straight so its a board and can be used in construction has a higher value. A board in an area with few trees has a higher value. A board that is made from a superior wood has a higher value. The guy that collects wood has a low value. The guy that has the skills / tools to make wood into boards has a higher value. The guy that can transport boards to areas without wood has a value..etc >Not everyone worships money or the 'free' market. ok? >But try and imagine you have her life. Why? I wouldn't pump out kids when I make min wage. I wouldnt work the same dead end job for ever. I wouldnt make any of these awful choices. And if I did, I would expect anyone to be forced to help me. Charity is a thing, and one Im happy to participate in. >No life is not fair She chose this life, whats not fair about consequences? >slavery wasn't fair Yes, how does that apply here? >If you think it's ok for this to be how it is, we have nothing to speak further about. Again, this is of her making, no one is forcing her to do anything >no I cannot come up with a number, congratulations. Right because living wage and other emotionally charged verbiage is nonsensical. >Also the argument that a teenager doesn't need to be paid a living wage is ridiculous. why? >It's the exact argument that's been used to under pay women. Oh boy, this has be debunked so many times Im sad you still think this is a thing. If women were truly underpaid, why woudnt greedy corps hire only women? >Maybe empathizing on this scenario is beyond you. I empathize with someone born with say a disability. You chose to do nothing with your life, no advancement, not trying, then have kids in the middle of this wreck, no you get little sympathy from me on that.