"> Being concerned for people isn't naive, it is naive to think slightly above minimum wage retail employees ever had a fighting chance. > You are naive to think these people ever had a chance to begin with. > It is naive and gullible to think the Sears' employees ever had a chance. When did I say they had a fighting chance? What part of ""fucked"" leads you to believe that they had a fighting chance? Surely everything I've said is that they did not, do not and will not have a fighting chance. If I thought they had a chance I wouldn't be so upset. To repeat myself yet again - these people are fucked. All people working in retail are fucked; and it's very likely that there's going to be a collapse and almost everyone without a specific technical skill that's in demand is going to be fucked. _All these people are fucked. They never had a fighting chance. Things were bad for them when they were working; things are going to be much worse for them now. And I am sad._ Is this clear to you now? This is what I've said from the beginning - but somehow simply expressing sympathy for all these people getting fucked is so controversial that people somehow feel compelled to claim that I'm a supporter of exploitative capitalism. > The good news is a $9/hr job is easier to find than a $100,000/year job. These Sears employees can go work at Khols or Panera Bread for very little loss in income. Can you give me any evidence of your claim? There are five job searchers for every open position in the United States. Businesses are not expanding, why would they be hiring unskilled labor? They're sitting on large piles of cash, waiting for the recession to end - and if it doesn't, why, they now have a guaranteed pool of labor at near-slavery prices. Even if we had enlightened businesses, which we do not, the logical thing to do during a recession is not to hire unskilled labor and have them sit around all day, but upgrade the training on your skilled labor force, modernize your infrastructure, streamline your processes, so when the recession lifts you have a modern company that can outcompete others. Look to Germany for a guide. The German Model, where businesses, the unions and the government _cooperate_ to keep their companies efficient and their jobs profitable, has _worked_ for two generations. The fact that they can compete aggressively in the world markets, provide a social safety net for their citizens, while also paying at least part of the costs for the kleptocracies in the EU (we're looking at you, Greece) shows how effective it is."