"To first understand exactly how collection agencies work it is important to know the background of the industry. The industry started shortly after the great depression. consumers were no longer able to pay for their accounts and companies did not know how to collect. As far-fetched as it seems one of the booming industries was the mafia. Pa and ma shops were paying for protection; some because they were not given a choice. Since the ""protection"" industry was doing well some of the ""employees"" (for lack of better terms) had the idea of collecting debt from the companies that were not getting paid. Sears, Macy's and several other creditors decided to sell the unpaid debt to these collectors. Remember, during this era there was no FDCPA to protect consumers. The FDCPA was actually created because the mafia collectors were going door to door to collect and they were not nice about it. In the meantime there was another industry (for lack of better words) rapidly expanding around the eastern part of the U.S. - none other than the mafia. Did the Godfather go and introduce himself and make a sales pitch to Sears offering to collect monies due to them? Not hardly. But as with any business, ideas were made and created that spurred from the main ideology of the original business. Associates of the mafia marketed to the stores such as Sears and offered to collect the past due debt. The big sell on this. creditors did not have to pay for the services - the customer did. Originally this “protection” industry was all about protecting the small ma and pop shops for a fee but this time ma and pa did not have to pay - the debtor did. The idea of collecting past due debts spread like wildfire. It was easy money and there was nothing illegal about it. The actual idea behind collecting past due debt from creditors was genius. It was a legit, collectable debt… for a price. This is why and how the FDCPA was created. So when you deal with a third party collection agency you need to know that you are dealing with the dirtiest of dirtiest people. The people that are hired as debt collectors are your typical ex-felons. There is a reason for this. The good news is now there are laws put into place to protect your rights and your safety. Agencies purchase what is called ""paper"". There is ""good"" and ""bad"" paper. Good paper are accounts just sold from the original creditor. This includes all good information on the debtor such as phone number, address etc. Sometimes the debt is collected and sometimes not. Either way it is common for a collection agency to resell the paper to another collection agency. This is called 3rd placement."