"Okay, so.. > Lifting* the offer (hit bids, lift offers). And I suppose that's a stategy, albeit a somewhat simple one. Passive routing strategies differ from firm to firm and algo to algo. What is your customer going to think if you bid up a new price level only for the stock to rally completely away from it? I mean if you have an open order for more than 10 times the amount currently offered with a limit above the offer, and you havent gotten filled on the bid, what can you do but lift the offer and try to be first at the next price level up? At least you would have gotten some at the price they quoted, or are they fill or kill? > ""Bidding it up to attract sellers"" sounds an awful lot like spoofing, just a heads up. Sure though, if you want to tighten a spread or create new levels with aggressive passive liquidity, that is a strategy. The same caveats as I mentioned above apply. Just to be clear, 'aggressively adding passive liquidity' is the more apt way to put it - I'm talking about when you actually want to get filled on those bids but you're having trouble finding sellers. Could you give me an example of what you might consider passive or aggressive, just for scale - would a mkt impact of .10% raise any eyebrows? How do you gauge fair value or does that matter less to you than just accumulating/selling what you can for what you were asked to? > Anyway, if market impact isn't an issue for the customer, sure, take liquidity until you're filled. Don't forget about getting good size done in the opening and closing auctions (MOO/MOC). If you're too passive you risk the market moving away from you and pissing off the customer. If you're too aggressive you risk moving the market too much and pissing off the customer. So then is the question more 'how motivated is the buyer or seller?' I'm glad you bring up the MOO/MOC, are there certain securities that don't have much of a market in those auctions? Trying to suss out how a large firm can hold a position in some of the less popular names with next to no liquidity and little in the way of dark pool, auction, block sales, etc."