Tax concerns aside, there are managerial pros and cons for internal billing. For cost control purposes it's common to break individual business activities into divisions/sections which have a P&L or are cost centers. At that point, if you know (for example) that your quality control inspections cost on average 1% of your product cost then one might bill internally for use of this cost center. One argument for doing this is it makes those who are billed more cautious about using internal resources as there's a direct cost allocation. It also benchmarks that resource against outsourcing- for example it may be significantly cheaper to use an external resource. There can therefore be a 'healthy tension' between the cost center and user which in theory results in pressure for the cost center to improve efficiency. In practice I've found there are some significant cons. First issue is with cost allocation. The cost center in an attempt to make their service appear more efficient will battle to get minimal overhead costs allocated to them, creating friction between departments. Second and I think a major issue is a blanket cost for use of a service invariably winds up with a lot of exceptions. In the previous example there may be some very large programs where a 1% inspection fee winds up with a huge sum of money, one that the product team may argue unfairly reduces their net income and therefore compensation. Then there's the administrative cost of what essentially is passing money from the left hand to the right even if just on paper. Third issue is with some activities you might not want to provide a disincentive for people to use the service- for example charging a product team for quality assurance may result in skipped QA processes for the benefit of cost savings. What I've found works better is creation of cost centers with management of those centers. This is common in companies that have a matrix organizational structure. Using the same example again, QA costs are broken out and completely separated from other areas and QA management is benchmarked independently.