For a long time, I thought that all the nice things that I live with I could only have because other people somewhere in the world went with less. That I had a nice life only because through magical economy and forced servitude, someone else had a bad life. Then I heard the parable of specialization. There are 3 people. Alice is a farmer, Bob is a farmer, and Charlie is a candlestick maker. Every person needs to eat 1 potato and 1 egg every day to live. There is no money. Alice has always had a knack for making eggs, and trained herself to become even better. Bob has a nice field with fertile soil, and so is quite good at making potatoes. Alice spends her morning making 2 eggs, and her afternoon making 1 potato, while Bob uses his morning to make 1 egg, and his afternoon to make 2 potatoes. In the evening, Alice brings her 1 extra egg to Charlie, trades it for a 1-hour candle, goes back home to eat her 1 egg and 1 potato, and read her book for an hour before going to bed. Bob does the same thing, except he trades his 1 extra potato for a 1-hour candle. Charlie can make 1 1-hour candle in the morning, and 1 1-hour candle in the afternoon. He eats the 1 egg and 1 potato he got, and goes to bed. One day, Alice and Bob meet at their fence, and talk about the books they're reading and how they can only read for 1 hour each night, and how much food they each produce. Then they get an idea and agree on a new plan. Now, Alice spends her morning making 2 eggs, and her afternoon making 2 eggs, for a total of 4 eggs every day. Bob starts making potatoes only, and makes 4 every day. At the end of the day, Alice gives Bob 1 egg, in exchange for 1 potato. Alice then brings her 2 extra eggs to Charlie, and Bob brings his extra 2 potatoes. Charlie now starts getting 2 eggs and 2 potatoes every day. So he gets a lovely wife, Daniel, from the next county over, and trains her to make 1-hour candles. She's just as good as Charlie, and makes 2 per day. So now, Alice gets 2 1-hour candles for her 2 extra eggs, and reads for 2 hours every night before bed. She's happy. Bob also gets 2 1-hour candles for his 2 extra potatoes, and reads for 2 hours before bed. He's also happy. Charlie uses the 2 eggs and 2 potatoes he gets to feed himself and Daniel every day, and Charlie and Daniel play in bed every night. Charlie and Daniel are happy. And so, because of specialization, we start with 3 unhappy people, and end with 4 happy people and 0 unhappy people. Good lives can be gotten without making other people suffer.