God, if the last **[partial audit that revealed trillions in secret loans](http://www.goldstockbull.com/articles/federal-reserve-secret-bank-bailouts-topped-16-trillion/)** wasn't enough- I can't see why we wouldn't give them a full audit. 31 USC § 714 - AUDIT OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL, FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD, FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS, FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AND OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (a) In this section, “agency” means the Financial Institutions Examination Council, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (in this section referred to as the “Board”), Federal reserve banks, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. (b) Under regulations of the Comptroller General, the Comptroller General shall audit an agency, but may carry out an onsite examination of an open insured bank or bank holding company only if the appropriate agency has consented in writing. **Audits of the Board and Federal reserve banks may not include—** (1) transactions for or with a foreign central bank, government of a foreign country, or nonprivate international financing organization; (2) deliberations, decisions, or actions on monetary policy matters, including discount window operations, reserves of member banks, securities credit, interest on deposits, and open market operations; (3) transactions made under the direction of the Federal Open Market Committee; or (4) a part of a discussion or communication among or between members of the Board and officers and employees of the Federal Reserve System related to clauses (1)–(3) of this subsection. (c) (1) Except as provided in this subsection, an officer or employee of the Government Accountability Office may not disclose information identifying an open bank, an open bank holding company, or a customer of an open or closed bank or bank holding company. The Comptroller General may disclose information related to the affairs of a closed bank or closed bank holding company identifying a customer of the closed bank or closed bank holding company only if the Comptroller General believes the customer had a controlling influence in the management of the closed bank or closed bank holding company or was related to or affiliated with a person or group having a controlling influence. (2) An officer or employee of the Office may discuss a customer, bank, or bank holding company with an official of an agency and may report an apparent criminal violation to an appropriate law enforcement authority of the United States Government or a State. (3) Except as provided under paragraph (4), an officer or employee of the Government Accountability Office may not disclose to any person outside the Government Accountability Office information obtained in audits or examinations conducted under subsection (e) and maintained as confidential by the Board or the Federal reserve banks. (4) This subsection shall not— (A) authorize an officer or employee of an agency to withhold information from any committee or subcommittee of jurisdiction of Congress, or any member of such committee or subcommittee; or (B) limit any disclosure by the Government Accountability Office to any committee or subcommittee of jurisdiction of Congress, or any member of such committee or subcommittee. .. http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/31/714 The people here who are under an illusion the federal reserve has any sort of meaningful audit, and that it is coincidental that the last audit outside of this limited scope resulted in the information related to trillions of secret loans is very deluded or brainwashed. Open your fucking eyes, world! The federal reserve bank exists to rob you of the country your fathers conquered!