Alright bud- I took the day off today so I'll play along. I'm going to focus my answers to be US-centric because this is the realm in which I have experience; if you're from elsewhere then accept my apology in advance. > So you're saying a company has no responsibility whatsoever to ensure its employees make fair wages? No, I'm not saying that- a company has a legal responsibility to ensure employees make wages considered fair under the FLSA, for one, including any municipal or state laws surrounding employee pay. As far as I know, litigation surrounding Uber's FLSA issues is still pending and as I'm not a federal judge I can't weigh in on the legality of their various pending lawsuits. > That the market will determine a person's salary based on their valuability? I'm also not saying that- it's weird of you to keep putting words in my mouth. I don't disagree with that sentiment but I definitely didn't argue it as a point in my earlier comment. > What if market forces align to reduce wages in order to increase profitability? Market forces do this on a regular basis at the corporate level- this is called a negative profit margin and it's literally happening right now (or probably in about 10 minutes when the NYSE opens) with a company who's product you're using to write this comment. It'll also probably trend back upward in the time it takes me to finish this comment. Unfortunately salaries and compensation packages for employees of most types are flat and focused on averages based on something called math. The concept is more technically referred to as profit equals revenue minus cost, with cost being a floating variable dependent on (you guessed it) market forces. This gets a lot more complicated as you delve into specifics and as you seem to have a fairly untenable grasp on business operations as it is I'm worried it's futile to get too much more specific. > That's exactly what's happened in the last 30 years and people like you protecting corporate greed is the reason why living wages has stagnated barely matching inflation while executive salaries have skyrocteted. I'm not certain what I did to 'protect corporate greed' in my comment besides buy a product I want at a cost I deemed fair, but ignoring that- the CEO pay vs employee pay argument has been debunked about a thousand times over by anyone who, again, understands math- it's division this time so be careful not to sprain something. A quick google search shows a figure reflecting Wal-Mart's CEO's total compensation at ~$22mm including stock options, salary, and bonuses. Another google search shows a total 2.1mm employees of the company. Quick division reflects that each employee could pocket about $10.5 a year if the firm outright did not pay their CEO by which that means they don't have a CEO, and thus do not have a functioning company. Congratulations, your logic just made 2 million people unemployed. > You're either ignorant of the big picture, or a shill for a system that exploits the masses. Sorry- I'm new to this subreddit so I don't know if this is what passes for intelligent discussion around here; but that's a very narrow way of looking at the world. I could also say '[you're] either ignorant of business operations, or a shill for non-functioning economies'; but I'd like to believe an individual with the ability to use a computer is not that illiterate. I'm confused about your argument as a whole- are you saying I shouldn't shop at Wal-Mart or take an Uber because these companies don't pay their employees salaries you've deemed 'fair'? Can I get a list of places I'm allowed to buy things from, then?