"I have to disagree with you. **Money is a store of value with which you can redeem your accumulated work for a good or service you need, at any time.** Therefore, you don't have to wait until your crop has perished to trade it for what you need. Any store of value that is not purely useful in terms of ""I can consume this"" or ""I can turn this into value directly through labor"" is essentially an IOU. It would be more accurate to say, in the context you provide, that for every asset (your apples) there exists an equivalent combination of liability (what you had to borrow to produce the apples) and equity (what you put in of your own in order to get the apples). Since gold in this very simple hypothetical system has absolutely no use other than a **store of value**, it *is* debt. It is the promise that you will at some point in your process of transactions acquire the utility that you require. You can't fertilize with gold, but you can buy fertilizer. **Until you buy that fertilizer, you've only traded your harvest for a promise that you *can* buy your fertilizer.** Something otherwiseyep didn't elaborate on very much, though he mentioned it and it is integral to his story, is the time value of money. That is, if I can borrow 10 gold pieces today for my future work accumulated, I'll pay you back 12 when it's done. This has an effect greater than just injecting value into the economy. It ensures that the negative value experienced by *not* having those 10 gold pieces will be compensated. Credit provides an opportunity for planning for the cyclical nature of markets. It provides an opportunity to make your transaction now - that you don't have to wait until harvest to trade your deer skins for apples. >Economists like Paul Krugman seem to believe that everything can be fixed by increasing demand, but they totally ignore the costs of production. There exists plenty of demand in the US economy right now, but the cooper has died, the barrels must be brought from China. I also disagree with this. Krugman emphasizes the *importance* of demand-side measures, not their exclusivity. Any policy must account for cost curves, and that economic profit for any firm is maximized when marginal revenue (the revenue increase or decrease of a single unit added to production) is equal to marginal cost. The U.S may have some demand right now, but if the cost of production were truly the issue, then these firms would be adjusting their capacity, and not sitting on trillions of dollars of currency that ought to be liquid. If demand was really that high, companies wouldn't be stuffing their mattresses right now to keep the money injected into the economy by QE *out* of circulation. The real problem is that while in the last few decades consumption has been climbing steadily, real wages have flat-lined, and now we have high unemployment. We can't raise wages, we can't hire more workers, and we still want our cars and houses and corn syrup and lead-filled toys. This, I think we can agree, is where credit goes wrong: the gap between consumption and wages was filled with credit. The housing bubble manifested itself thus: not as simply a boom in quantity and a lowering in price, but a lowering in price as a result of faulty (dishonest and misleading) risk assessment - (by the same folks who downgraded US debt), and an implosion as a result of that debt systematically dissolving through defaults and foreclosures (to put it very, very, very, simply). Instead of an increase in consumer credit, we need greater investment by the companies who currently sit on trillions of dollars of frozen cash. Those investments could be better managed, with transparent risk assessment and greater restrictions on lending policy. Or, ideally, that money could be used to hire workers, expand plants and lower marginal costs. To tie it back to your concluding paragraph, credit makes it possible to satisfy the demand for those barrels of apples by buying them at a fair market value from China. If it weren't for China's ability to provide the apples at a ""fair"" price (you can, for our purposes here, consider this price to be fair market value if you make a transaction - the selling price equals the buying price), there would be an apple shortage, and the price of apples would climb ridiculously high."