"> Why would he have had to have known about Sony's patent application. He explicitly stated he didn't know about it until after it was awarded. As I noted the whole timeline simply DOESN'T match up with reality (*at all, no matter HOW desperately one contorts the timeline into trying to make it ""plausible""*). I think he has not only (at the least) dramatically ""rewritten"" his own memory, and ""embellished"" the story.. but that most probably he was entirely mistaken as to what actually happened in the first place. Again, at best (and even this is a a rather dubious contortionist stretch), I think ""Junior"" *maybe* came up with a crude (almost crayon like) drawing of the ""germ"" of an idea relative to CRT's after reading some ""pop-science"" article about CRT's.. and then ""Daddy"" (who was apparently a Wall Street Lawyer) indulged his son by having a patent attorney look at it, and then came back and told junior some cock & bull story about having been ""beaten"" to the patent. And it probably didn't go any further than that.. other than in the fervent imagination of a teenager. Who then repeated the story.. and slowly modified (and later embellished) it as the years went on. >how many kids his age do you think were even coming up with crappy, unoriginal TV designs, and how many of those went on to become marketing guys? LOL. Go to any sizeable bar and talk to a number of people; ask them if they ever had an ""idea"" that was later patented and became a ""big time"" thing -- you'll end up with HUNDREDS of similar ""well I had this idea once for _____"" stories, and a lot of them will come from when they were teens or twenty-somethings.. very few of them have even a tiny kernel of ""truth"". Now granted most of them will NOT talk about having ""applied for a patent"" -- but than again, most of them didn't have an indulgent father who was a well-connected Lawyer either. >He could reason and understand about technology, its potential, and its impact in a way that a lot of CEO's at the time couldn't. Actually, all of the evidence is that he was essentially CLUELESS about even rather basic technology -- in the extreme. As the Apple CEO, he was a ""fish out of water"" -- but, given that the advertising & PR people had already (once) done the ""let's dress up our CEO as a 'technical wunderkind visionary"" (with Jobs) -- they simply did their best to repeat the same thing (with even *less* basis in reality) with Sculley. And of course subsequently -- he's been coasting on (and trying to capitalize on) that bullshit ever since. He probably should have just gone back to the beverage & advertising world; but by then I think he had begun to *believe* his own PR myth, and his ego just wouldn't allow for admitting the truth."