"It could be simple as far as who gets what accounts after the initial assignments go. So, for this example let's look at: Employee A - 5 accounts worth 15 million *FLAGGED FOR FULL* Employee B - 1 account worth 75 million Employee C - 3 accounts worth 50 million Employees have the ability to decide if they do not want anymore accounts, or if they can take on more. That's pretty much what happens now. ""Hey can you handle one more account?"" **""Actually, my accounts are pretty chaotic right now and look that way for the foreseeable future. Can I pass on this one?""** So, when a new account comes available if I've flagged myself as full I simply don't participate in what would be a random handing out of the Alpha Account. The only problem I could see is if employees are stretching themselves out a bit too much for extra money, and not necessarily because they can rightfully handle the workload. Now they're just not flagging themselves because they want more money, but that sounds like a problem that can be easily handled by looking at their performance. Can you handle the load? No. Then I'm flagging you. Again, this is what happens now. If some people volunteered for more Alpha Accounts they'd be told no. There have been times now when a support has too many accounts and they pull it away and give to someone else. As far as losing money based on accounts, there could simply be a baseline salary. From baseline X apply the modifiers for the account values, quantities, and years worked there, but if you were to lose all but 1 account, all to no fault of you, the support, you'd be at the baseline X salary. Right now if that happened, they'd lay you off and hand your accounts to someone else. So, what's worse is how I see it. I don't disagree with the office politics, innovation being kept to the support personnel and not shared, and I could see toxicity, but I only see it if the numbers of employees don't decrease which they inevitably would. Turnover I think is key in the beginning. The crew would be dwindled down to half the numbers, and the requirements for the position should inevitably increase thus cultivating an environment that's no more toxic than an internal sales department who work side by side, for commission."