"A few years back me and a couple of friends made about 100 of these on his 30 watt laser cutter. At the time I was using them for ring boxes, because I make spoon rings and wanted something to give to people for the nicer sterling rings. If I remember correctly we used high ply baltic birch plywood at 1/8"" thickness. The grade we were buying ran us about $30 for a 5'x5' sheet. We cut them into 11x16 sheets, because that's the max size for his laser, and cut roughly 5 out of each sheet. The ones we were making were of course much smaller than what you are looking at though. Materials alone ended up running about $.50 a piece, we were coating with one layer of teak oil. It was roughly ten minutes to cut out 5 boxes, then another ten minutes to pop them out of the plywood and assemble each one. Despite what has been stated, with tweaking, friction fit held up completely fine, we didn't use glue on a single one and I still have a few laying around that are holding up fine also. Anyway, say you are paying yourself roughly $20 an hour, and you can speed it up from what we did and make 20 in an hour, now you have $1 a piece in labor. Keep in mind if you go to a place to have these made, from my experience, most places will charge you roughly $1 a minute for laser time. Add engraving time if you want a logo or something on them, probably another minute per box, all in all in the end these are going to end up costing you $2.50-$3 a box if you have free access to a laser. I would imagine anyone making them for you would probably charge double that. In the end after the first batch of both these boxes, some slightly different, and some jewelry trees, we found out that it's hard to sell these items for an affordable price and still make it worth your while. If I remember correctly we ended up selling most of the remaining boxes for about $4 a piece just to break even and cover all of our expenses. Of course, this is just my experience, if someone has a way to do this more efficiently and for a profit, I would be interested to hear it, because we still have the laser and probably 100 sheets of plywood left =D"