">Trust me: those ""EDI operators"" (called ""EDI Service Bureaus"" in the US) have a unique EDI map for each trading partner, because, as I said, each trading partner sends the EDI data in a completely different way. Different ERP systems have different mappings, but there are no unlimited amount of ERP systems. If you can cover SAP, Microsoft and Oracle you can already trade EDI messages between most of the big parties. You only have to make the EDI mappings once for a system and if you have dediceted process to update them it is not hard to sell it to companies that want to have EDI processes. We never had to do any kind of mappings our self. I guess the infra in EU is just a bit ahead of what you got in US. >EDI service Bureaus charge $$$ per message So does it cost to scan, input data and process the invoice. For us it was easy choice as it is way faster, more reliable and also cheaper than having someone do all the data input into ERP. >Shortly, invoices from suppliers are for many different types of services handled by many different departments. For all those we have automated rules. Freight orders are sent through a 3rd party system that matches the invoices to the freight orders. They have our freight prices and can automatically approve the invoices with the tables or reject them and ask for a credit. Goods invoices have the PO-number. The shipping documents have the same PO-number and when a item is received with a PO number it is allocated to a invoice with the same PO number. Buyers know if the PO is not full filled automatically as the inventory will not match what was ordered. HR invoices will go to HR department automatically and they just have to check if the invoice is correct. Postings and deparment allocations are done by automatic rules here also. Office supplies can either be bought by PO number or with reference to who the invoice has to be sent for inspection. Inspector can change the automatic postings if there is something incorrect with the automatic posting. The system we have has been quite flexible and there has not been much of need for customization after the initial setup. Of course there is still some manual postings to be done, but lot less than without."