"I'm sorry. But no. It is not. Some simple microeconomic theories can be predictive *in the current system*. But macroeconomic theories are almost never predictive and always more reminiscent of a religion. Science must be predictive by definition. But predictions about complex systems are notoriously dicey. This is why your meteorologist can't predict more than a few days out. It's because it's impossible. The system is too complex. It is sensitive to initial conditions which are unknown and unknowable. And the inputs are too numerous and varied to account for everything. But they can be accurate to within a given confidence interval, even if it does not achieve formal statistical significance. And they can run something akin to what economists would call Monte Carlo simulations given their models. But so far as macroeconomics go, there is no admission by many practitioners in many schools about the predictive limitations on the whole endeavor based on the complex nature of the system. There are simply constructed theoretical frameworks, which are not predictive, but which seem to have fit certain patterns in the past that are cherry-picked to confirm a hypothesis. If that is science, it is bad science. This does not mean one cannot have an untested hypothesis. Economists generally cannot set up their own experiments, after all. And they deal in complexity and human decision, just like the other social scientists. But economists, perhaps more so than other social scientists due to the increased mathematical skill set in the standard tool-box of the field, tend to overstate their case. This is particularly true for those larger-named economists in the field who inevitably get hired by major media companies. If Friedman and Galbraith were both scientists, how did they come to such widely different conclusions? How does the University of Chicago predict and prescribe the polar opposite of U. MO St. Louis? Basing any theory on splitting one half of Weber's theory of rationality from the other and assigning the behavioral patterns to actors already makes several cognitive leaps. And yes, in the last few years we have had the school of behavioral economics and bounded rationality models to try to cope with this. But it's still far from predictive. The Austrians are certainly on some of the shakiest ground in my view. At least Keynes' work was rigorous. So was Marx's for that matter. That stands in stark contrasts to the Austrians and their ilk. But regardless, when dealing with essentially contested concepts, consensus through induction becomes the only path forward. Empirical deduction falls off the menu. The schools of biology and chemistry at U MO and U Chic. will not come to diametrically opposite conclusions given identical data. The schools of economics do. That, in and of itself, is anecdotal evidence of a severe flaw in the ""science in a very litteral sense."" And so I stand by my statement."