">They compensate me fairly for doing work that I mostly enjoy. I cant relate to your sentiment. I work for an intercontinental grocery company, as a Janitor and Stocker for one of their local stores in the US. I work swing shift for minimum wage as a Part Time employee. No benefits. Meanwhile, I sometimes work 15 hour shifts (anything over 12 is illegal for part timers, iirc). I have worked every hour of the 24 hour clock inside the span of three days, and still not seen a day off for another week, while still not earning overtime for that week. I've gotten 8 hours some weeks, and 39.8 hours other weeks, without any predictability. I cannot even fully trust the work schedule they publish on Thursday for the following week beginning that coming Sunday. With as little as three days notice with the posted schedule, I am on call to work, or have my shift cancelled, even after I am clocked in for that shift. In the end, I am on call 24/7. And I'm even expected to actively ""represent the company"" while off the clock, as free advertising. No, not simply the ""don't do anything that would reflect poorly on your employer,"" but to actively (without any structured guidance, because that would turn it into labor, and necessitate pay) talk with neighbors and strangers about our low low prices. If we don't spend our own free time to study the ads and specials, we recieve a public shaming among our peers. There is not a single thing that I enjoy about my job. Some of the other people working there aren't half bad. But the best ones usually walk out or get fired for wanting little things like ""respect"". I actually went to college. I have job skills. I almost didn't get hired because of this - but you know, I convinced them I was desperate to have *something* getting me by. A few former college classmates who also work/ed there vouched for me on that. I've charted how the quantity of most products going off of special that our computers order actually assumes the same number of sales as when it was *on special!* I was in the process of deriving a better algorithm for this.. and I enjoy *that* work. But after I pointed this problem out to my manager, I was laughed at. We literally throw away entire dumpsters full of product every month because it passes the expiration date, and management groans and complains about this. Yet my observation of how this happens was laughed at and shrugged off. And just the icing on this cake: I still haven't gotten that second work shirt that I was promised after 90 days. I've been there for 8 months. Those long hours on back to back to back days don't always give me the opportunity to do laundry. Then they complain when I reek at work, sweating as I rush the 20+ pound boxes of cat litter onto the shelves. Fuck 'em. Fuck 'em hard, fuck 'em long, and fuck 'em with something hard, sandpapery, and with splinters. Gimme a few more months to demonstrate that I can hold a job, and I'm going to get a job at.. Fuck, everywhere else around here is just like this, and I don't know the people or have a portfolio of works in fields where I could actually use my Math degree."