In the broadest strokes: *Strategy* is about decision making *Finance* is about the management of money *Business Development* is about identifying and developing opportunities There's a lot of interplay between all aspects of business, so it's going to sound like a lot of them beget the other, or are interchangeable: because you can't make decisions without knowing your capital situation and how the decision will affect your cashflows, and you wouldn't have a decision to make without an opportunity being identified, and you wouldn't know how valuable an opportunity is unless you knew how it would impact your cashflows. This is also why the higher in the corporate ladder you go, the more meetings you'll be in, because it's a coordinated dance between every department and none of them act in a vacuum. If you got an MBA concentrating in Strategy, your most prominent opportunities straight out of school are going to be in consulting where you would help businesses make decisions on moving forward. Strategic roles within a fortune 500 company are likely going to be filled with senior employees; with opportunities after a few years in consulting to transition into a management role within a corporate setting. None of it is set in stone though. If you got an MBA concentrating in Finance (what I did), your most prominent opportunities will be in corporate finance and financial services. Corporate finance jobs center largely on capital budgeting and working capital management. Capital budgeting is assessing how valuable potential investment projects are, and prioritizing what should be funded and how. Working capital management is making sure you don't run out of cash (more complicated than it sounds). You can look on payscale.com to see what common career paths for any of the entry jobs look like. A financial analyst becomes a senior analyst after a few years, and then moves into finance management positions, then up to director/VP, CFO. A management consultant would become a project manager, move into operations management, director/VP, C-suite.