"I mean, are we moving from ""everyone deserves enough wage to fully live on no matter how much value their job creates"" to ""everyone deserves full on nice place to live no matter what""? My wife and I are living in 2 rooms of someone else's home because neither of us graduated college. That's an office we share and a bedroom. We are either sleeping or working. Often at different times because she works night shift. Our bathroom is the ""anybody who happens to be downstairs and anyone who visits the house bathroom"". She's currently studying for a job upgrade and I've started a business that's beginning to get traction, but that's recent. We made bad decisions that led to not great jobs. But we realized that the only people who could pick us up and help were ourselves. My refrigerator just died, and I no longer have a vehicle because some loser decided he wanted to pull out in front of me at the last possible second. My family helps, but they can't prop us up, and I DON'T WANT THEM TOO. If you're working a minimum wage job, educate yourself. Build something else. Free education is all over the internet and you can literally make yourself a job now with nothing but a computer (fuck, a smartphone) and your work ethic. Nobody who will hire you gives a shit about your skin color or gender or anything like that. They care about whether or not you can provide value. Let teenagers sling fries and pack boxes. Fucking grow up and learn how to code. Learn how to work on cars in your spare time. Education is now free and it's the ticket to a better life. Jesus fuck. Saying things like ""Stop eating avocado toast and you could afford a house"" is bullshit. But to say ""use free resources to help yourself instead of staying at McDonald's and spending your time on nonsense bullshit, and maybe you could soon make more than minimum wage"" sure isn't. I've worked minimum wage and driven an hour from my house for the privelege. If you aren't willing to improve yourself and your skillset, then fuck yes, live under the stairs like Harry Potter. There's no reason Gary Vaynerchuk goes from working at his dad's liquor store to millionaire, but someone else can't go from McDonald's to making a real ""living wage"". There's no reason JK Rowling went from nothing to giving away so much money that she dropped from billionaire to millionaire​, but someone else can't learn how to write as copy or social media for businesses. Live under the stairs. Make minimum wage. But don't bitch about it if you aren't fucking working to change your circumstances, because to be honest, nobody owes you or me shit."