First of all, that link is nonsense. I recommend you read the actual GAO audit report, which has 16T in *revolving loans* with only (if I recall) about 1.8T in actual loans at any one time. Secondly, every time I check the details of a claim from Bernie Sanders he has stretched the truth far beyond reasonable, mostly to keep his name in the news I expect. Now, there was nothing that secret about *anything* in that report that was not reported in GAO reports from earlier. This audit was done for political purposes mostly, and the Fed has audits done regularly, as I stated earlier. This too can be checked, and I recommened you do so rather than believe me or that story. That incident, as you call it, is already exceeding rare. You have to weigh the pros/cons of that incident (which as I pointed out is not really an incident) with the problems that arise when you make more transparent and governmental control of the Fed. If the Fed has a role in stabilizing the economy (which is it's mandate) and if many of the tools do not work as well with more transparency and if there is evidence across many countries that doing such things to the Fed will likely result in certain problems, then one should make that call. However, to want those changes made while being ignorant of the issues is a terrible idea, and it is the least informed that usually yell the loudest for such changes. This would not be a problem except then certain politicians realize they can get votes by pandering to the ignorant masses, which really leads to tanked economies. Find how many economies have been tanked by an independent central banks versus how many have been tanked by political forces meddling with their respective economies. Finally, I highly recommend anytime you read a story that sounds outrageous, track down the source material and read it yourself. If you cannot find source material, or they do not list it, then distrust them. You'll find 99/100 times the outrageousness is created by selectively pulling information from the actual reports. Then track down report sources, wherever possible. Etc. Seriously, read the actual report.