">Despite having zero proof of such a thing happening. I was refreshing when he did it, so I saw him downvote me in real time. Then, within a minute, he posted his reply. They float a div with the subreddit rule whenever you hover over the downvote. How is that not proof? Anyway, I suspect that FatStig is your alter account anyway, so you're essentially just a little contrarian who doesn't contribute to the discussion. Also, if that is your alter, the way you're defending it makes you a sock puppeteer in reddit parlance. That's unacceptable by the community's longtime standards. >The fact you even made a point to bring it up says all that needs to be said. Pointing out your rule violations would not (and does not) satiate any anger in me; it's not like I reported it. The reason I drew attention to your misbehavior by mentioning it was to make you uncomfortable, because I want to alienate you from the conversation because your participation in it (and probably other discussions on this sub) was not contributing to the discussion. It was detracting from my user experience. You're trying to frame it as an angry tirade because repackaging my legitimate complaint of your behavior makes it easier to dismiss. You are doing that because you are juvenile, and you are inconsiderate of the people around you who have to constantly deal with your shit. Truth. >""IDC you little twerp."" Ya you did get mad over being downvoted. Emotions are a range. When I was a young man, there were times I became angry at little things. Over time that has changed. Don't mistake my contempt for your personality as anger: I think you're a twerp because you exhibit the same shallow misbehavior that a long-time user, like me, perceives as corrupting reddit as I know and love it. I disdain your participation in my interests; I find you to be annoying in an irritating sort of way. And, honestly, this is way harsher than I wanted to be with you, because I want to discourage you trying to interact with me if you are unwilling to change your ways. Your ways are a waste of my time and energy. I will probably stop responding soon because my prerogative, at this point, is to stop being exposed to your nonsense."