"The treatment of employees has found a new low with the use of technology. I was especially appalled by Jamba Juice who schedules down to 15 minute increments with part time employees. Their rational is that it saves the company money and their employees do not have the""same energy and enthusiam"" during the second half of a shift. I own my company and have had the same employees for over 24 years. Through good times and bad, they have always given me superior work with 150% effort. Clients ask me how I retain these great people. Here is the secret-it is in the form of a story. Two sled dog teams are in a race in the wilderness of Alaska-food is low and conditions are bad. Every night one of the mushers made sure his dogs were feed and bedded down first before he took care of himself with what little was left. He loved his dogs and cared about his dogs well being. Every morning the dogs got up and pulled the sled through the deep snow. They brought their master to the end of the race and saved his life. Every night the other musher feed himself first and made sure he was warm, after that he took care of his dogs with what little was left. Some of his dogs eventually ran away and some of his dogs died. There were not enough dogs left to pull the sled and the musher froze to death in the Alaska wilderness. Some of the last dogs ate him to survive. I doubt Ms.Rosser and Ms.Luey from Jamba Juice will grasp the moral of this story. I am sure their turn over of employees is very high and the true cost of retraining new employees is not factored in to their fantastic business plan. I find my clients are well pleased in part because they are assured they will have the services of my same employees who they know and trust to do a great job. My employees have increased my business and its bottom line. Advice to Ms. Rosser and Ms. Luey: 1) You best be perky and enthusiastic in the afternoon or a computer program may tell your boss to demote you and cut your pay. 2) You better hope Kronos Company is not hired by Jamba Juice to create a program which does your jobs better and your services are no longer needed. 3) Watch your back and if you feel someone chewing on your leg, you now know the reason why."