">Jesus you're impossibly dense. Your quickness to repeatedly resort to *ad hominem* reveals the weakness of your points. >Then why did you write the quote below? What is the point of bringing up city workers that are not involved in the article unless you believe that the cops in the article are city workers? The only other reason would be to mislead the reader. You were the one who implied that the politics of city residents had anything to do with control of the Port Authority in your first post in this thread. >Are you serious? NYC has 8mm of the 19mm NY state residents. This equates to almost half of the votes in statewide races, not to mention the majority of the political funding. This has a large bearing on who gets elected to statewide office. It has no bearing on control of the statewide government, because the way that the districts are gerrymandered ensure that the Assembly is always in the hands of the Democrats and the Senate is virtually always in the hands of the Republicans. The Governor's office has been evenly split over the last 20 years. >To imply that the executive director for the last 5 years should shoulder some of the blame is disingenuous? Who is to blame then? The last executive director, Anthony Shorris was also appointed by a democrat. You're going to have to do a lot of lying and reaching to falsely blame this on a republican. You've clearly made up your mind without knowing any of the facts, and are too stubborn to learn from reality. Pretty sad. You also seem to have a very high standard for other people's posts while you outright lie in yours. Again, *ad hominem*. But I'll ignore that for now, because you also resort to a straw man. I never ""blamed this on Republicans"" or suggested that the director of the last 5 years doesn't share some of the blame. I merely refuted your ridiculous assertion that the political leanings of the city's residents were what was responsible here. By design, the city residents have little control over the Port Authority. *EDITED for spelling and formatting."