"I have been in a very similar place like that before (as an intern) and got the hell out quickly. Let me try to paint a picture. On the 12th floor of a random NYC midtown building there will be a large office floor with long desks in several rows. Around the outside against the windows will be maybe some empty conference rooms, random senior people you won't be allowed to talk to, and a poor, miserable compliance guy stuck in a backoffice somewhere. Each desk will have a phone and a call sheet. There wont be many computers anywhere - maybe one Bloomberg machine in the back. Every single person in there is on the phone. In fact, that will be your job. Starting at 7:45 sharp, you will be at your desk. At 8 oclock, you will start dialing the call sheet put on your desk. If it is a bunch of residences, you will get angry house wives because their husbands are at work (dont ""pitch the bitch""). Next call, you will get someone that passed away 2 years ago - mark your sheet ""dead"" and cross out as you are dialing the next number. If you manage to get someone that answers their own phone at work and listens to a pitch, you will now get the opportunity to give a grandiose pitch on why a mid market, dividend paying stock is fantastic and should be bought now. ""Now"" as in you have to open a brokerage account on the first call for no less than a $5k trade. You will pitch them on why they dont need to ask their wife, why you will bring them great ideas. Ask them what is their net worth - have they ever hired a broker over the phone (qualify them) or get hung up on. Anything short of them threatening to call the SEC and cursing you before hanging up means you will be sure to call them again (a prospect actually picking up the phone is about a 1 in 20 dial event) People just slamming the phones on you? - Call them back for fun because you ""got disconnected"". If you ever manage to get a client, you will be charging them enormous percentages and fees to do simple trades. But dont worry, you probably wont get a client in the first 2 months, and even if you manage to get clients it will be maybe one or two a month. Think about the sheer volume of calls you have to make - 300 - 400 calls a day is probably a normal pace. You will meet the most insane people. People will go down for lunch or coffee and never return to the office. Most of the people there you wonder how they ever passed a series 7. There are people that fail the 7 3 times and quit. There will be a guy that opens 10 accounts a month and actually will be talking with two phones up to his ears at once. This is the definition of a high pressure sales job."