"> When you only other choice is OR DIE, it's pretty much slavery. Getting to choose your master, oh I'm sorry, ""career path"" is just mincing words. What do you think would happen if there were no other humans around? You'd have to work or die. > You have no choice but to work for somebody to sustain yourself. You can't leave society and go your own way; All land is owned in some form or another and to do so is illegal. ergo, you have no real choices and you are beholden to a system with the illusion of freedom. That's basically true, except there are giant areas of forest in the US or in Canada that you could live in, if you really want to ditch the comforts of society. > But you are anything but free. I can't say I disagree with you there. The amount of regulations and licensing that it takes to do anything in the US is insane. > Look up the term wage slavery. Haha, I'm familiar with this term > Honestly, old time slaves may have actually had it better than what we have today. At least the master was obligated to take care of his slaves and provide food, shelter, and medical care as his slaves were his investment in labor. I see what you're getting at, but you're wrong. It's pretty easy to type that from in front of a computer screen without someone dragging you out to the fields for 14 hours a day to bend over and pick cotton in the hot sun. > Today, the slaves have to fend for themselves. They need to purchase housing, education (modern day slaves have to secure their own training before they can become adequate servants), and healthcare. You have a really twisted view of what slavery is. I mean, I get that you're doing it semi-tongue in cheek, but it's coming of very /r/im14andthisisdeep. Here, I'll use your terminology: ""Moder day slaves"" get to live in their own house that they paid for with the money that they earned from their consensual slavery. Thanks to capitalism, even without health insurance, they still have access to insanely higher level of healthcare than slaves in the confederate south. Even just the ability to look up and treat a problem on their own. I left out the education part because if you think slaves in america were educated, well.. maybe you are a slave. > The masters sure have it good these days, they don't even have to put forth any of the effort their predecessors did. Yea, it takes zero effort to write a business plan, secure investments, manage a team and bring a vision into the world. That's why everybody does it. > And the best part? They can just dump them whenever they see fit. Let the servants worry about their own upkeep! After all, there is always a nice surplus of fresh up and coming laborers! I wouldn't want to force someone to keep another person employed any more than I'd want to force that person to be employed. > *citation Needed* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MPH4jl5kGp4 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLc7VCznliU"