"> all we need to do is show that such a thought process is theoretically sound in order to throw that premise into serious question Not really. You're splitting hairs. If you want to suggest that Wall Street enjoys tax paying, the onus is on you. > But if the actuaries can't figure out a way to do it, then wouldn't that be cause to reevaluate the blind faith many people place in markets? I feel like I'm a freshman in college again. There are *plenty* of examples of market failures. The temptation is to say that merely because there *is* a market failure, that therefore control by means of bureaucrats is necessary, without considering whether there is also a bureaucratic failure or whether the possibility of failure is as high as the original market scenario. A power plant causes pollution, leading to reduced air quality and quality of life for the surrounding population. This is a problem! The power plant is imposing a cost on me and I deserve to be compensated. ""Therefore, bureaucrats!"" Fine. But now you've shifted the problem from simply compensating for pollution to figuring out how on earth to do it fairly. And you've introduced a means for abuse of the system, incentivizing people to live closer to the problem or claim damages they don't have. Power plants still require a profit to operate, so costs will rise. We're now charging people more money to go to the company to then go back to the people with the additional inefficiency of a government watch group. Is the original scenario a problem? Absolutely. It's a failure of the free market to correctly provide according to individual's rights since everyone's air is collectively polluted. Is the alternative better? I don't know. It's certainly more complicated. > which is an asinine thing to do if you're concerned with actually changing the system Why do you think this, exactly? I agree with you, but I'm curious if we agree for the same reasons. I agree for the same reason I don't give my alcoholic family members any money at the end of the month."