Good grief! Ask a Republican to define their terminology to avoid conflict and confusion, and you get labeled a liberal. Honestly, the stupid labeling thing is one of the most obfuscating and idiotic parts of our political discourse these day. The idea here is to remove obfuscation so we can get to the point. Clarify yourself! You have declared paying government employees better than others is waste. You’ve also declared the current government delivery system is waste. But the whole system is NOT waste. Parse it out. You don’t want people paid more than a business can afford, right? So there is no financial loss? You don’t want a system in place that can’t afford to pay for itself, now or in the foreseeable future (after all, everyone should have a chance to recover), right? But when you say there is waste in the government, I have to be sure you are discussing complete value, including social, educational, technological, national, military, and not just budget. This is important because MY arguments hinge on the non-budget side, whereas yours seem to focus on the financial aspects. Not that these are the whole of either of our views. They are simply the focuses we have used in this discussion. So, stop with the cheap jabs, and we’ll continue. There are many wasteful aspects of the government. I agree with that. It there are many things the go ernment does that private industry either can’t or won’t do. Biggest of these is corporations will not go out of their way to protect their citizens. They will do what they are paid to do, and nothing else. The postal service will probably never be closed or privatized. If it were, however, I would love too see how the cost of delivery and the pay for delivery employees are affected. I agree the question of why government waste exists is the most important. But in order to see it clearly, we must get a lay of the land. We need to review two edge cases: 1) Where is the most waste? Why is it so extreme here? 2) Where is the least waste? Why is this part of the government more efficient? Then we can inspect the different influences in each system and explore why efficiency isn’t enforced or encouraged in so many government areas, and what can be done to improve efficiency, or if it is an area that the nation would do better with privatization instead.