"I think he makes a little mistake here: > And so, we might see that there has been this tendency for our psychology and our humanity to be less and less innovative, at a time when, in fact, we may need to be more and more innovative, if we're going to be able to survive the vast numbers of people on this earth. In the first part of the sentence, he is talking about our ""per capita"" rate of innovation, i.e., we as individuals don't have to be as innovative to benefit as much as we used to because we have more access to innovative ideas, and hence can get that benefit from better copying. In the latter part of the sentence, the ""need to be more and more innovative"", he's talking about the cumulative innovation, not per capita. The argument contradicts itself because the reason we *can* be individually less innovative is because we can produce *the same or greater* cumulative innovation by aggregating fewer local innovations over more people. This is how idea evolution (i.e., memetics) works as opposed to material wealth. Say, for instance, we all contribute a little to GDP. If there are more people contributing, GDP will grow. But we each can only access our little portion of it, so GDP per capita really tells a better story. Ideas don't work like that. If we aggregate everyone's useful innovations into an ""innovation GDP"", we all share the full cumulative GDP. It doesn't get divided such the we can only access a small portion of the idea. Hence less per capita contribution can still produce more ""innovation value"". So in the latter sense we are becoming ""more innovative"" on aggregate. He also seems to miss the important factor of efficiency. We have evolved means to make selection of *good* ideas more efficient via, for instance, the scientific method. Hence with the same or less innovation at the hypothesis level, we can produce more useful idea output with less effort (trial and error). He has some good discussion points, but I think he's missed a few key parts of the math."