"Now store the money in -- okay here, think about a realistic worst case scenario. Not zombie attack or meteor mega-strike, but the kinds in which you are not entirely helpless: job loss stacked on top of the worst recession since the Great Depression, along with credit drying up so you can't just borrow your way through the hard times. Store the money in an account and investment which is relatively liquid, meaning you could extract cash value from it fairly easily in a worst case scneario. Safe -- essentially impossible to lose significant value in a worst case scenario. (or, you only count the part of its value that's sure to be there in a worst case.) If you're much too cool for an emergency fund, then sorry to waste your valuable time! For the rest of us, it's a planning tool. Even dot-coms do this: it's called a ""burn-rate"" and they know exactly how many more weeks their VC can fund operations. Of course in practicality, it may not go to X months of routine expenses. Most of it may get burned up in month 2 on a new transmission. You can't really predict this stuff, the ""X month"" paradigm is just an arm-wave. For the financially uneducated, it's also a training tool. In the US, school does not provide financial education. Most people get financial habits from their parents, and like most family lessons, they are deeply emotionally wired, even if they are unconscious of that fact. For instance, some people don't ask for the salaries they deserve, and spend lavishly until the checkbook is zero - they literally push money away. Suffice it to say, it's a challenge to get some people to even realize that savings is a thing, when they have never in their whole lives been able to hold onto more than $20 for more than a week. The concept of an emergency fund is a sellable way to break through that ""I can't save"" mental-block. So I can see where you might think the emergency fund is greasy kidstuff. Fair. But it's not just that, it's also a very practical planning tool."