">I am not forgetting anything. You don't seem to get a broadcasting is media and part of media. Like I said they are a media company. No different from saying Time Warner is a media company or Disney. It's dishonest to equate a purely digital media entity to a broadcaster. Completely different tier—just not favorable to your argument. >Have you actually visited their website? It has such stories such as ""Turns Out It's Totally Cool to Have a 20-Pound Lobster in Your Suitcase"" and ""The Mothers Haunted by Their Sons' Unsolved Murders"" as well as ""D.R.A.M. Opens Up About Being a 'Big Baby' on 'THE THERAPIST'"" and ""New Yorkers Love Pride, Hate Trump"". Really no different from Buzzfeed except Vice doesn't do the whole list thing. So, history time: Vice Magazine established a channel called Viceland.com, and later it established other channels on VBS.tv. Eventually, they combined into a combined channel called vice.com, including the following sub-channels: * Vice * Broadly. * Creators * i-D * Amuse * Motherboard * Munchies * Noisey * Tonic * Thump * Vice Impact * Vice Sports * Waypoint * Viceland * Vice News So, you are viewing content from all those channels combined together, mistaking it for all Vice News content. BTW, the best Vice News content gets put into their HBO programs. Vice the series is phenomenal! >Nope, as it is not faulty. You can claim it is all you want, but until you prove its faulty its not. And you yet to prove its actually faulty. It's a sweeping generalization. The argument does not stand up to scrutiny, and that is proof it is faulty. Look up what a sweeping generalization is. >One I told you I read the article and it was crap, you even agreed with me it was crap. Two media companies do screen what content is on their platform. Meaning if they are smart they check for the quality of content as well. Thirdly didn't I tell you like 3 times now to stop making leaping assumptions and bullshit claims? Yet you continue to do so. And for someone claiming to have good analytic skills you certainly fall short in them. Yeah, okay, I think this is the point that I refrain from rubbing your nose in not just your logical mistake, again, but also your mistake about the type of stories on Vice News. Also, for tech news, I will give Motherboard a nod as well. There's also some pretty good content from Viceland (Specifically, I enjoy Hamilton's Pharmacopeia)."