"> I don't think you realize how ignorant people can be. Nor how uneducated as to what options they have or more importantly who will pay for those options since they are probably just as broke as they were before the kid. Haha, I'm well aware of how ignorant people can be. I went to a very poor school with bad education where the teachers mostly spent much of their time just trying to corral the class rather than actually teach. The kids still knew that fucking could lead to babies, they just didn't care because they also knew (or at least believed) that they could get welfare. Based on the hostility of your response I'm gonna guess that you probably wont believe me and will assume this is some sort of ""alt-right"" propaganda, but that doesn't change reality. People can be very very dumb, but they aren't that dumb. > This isn't that point. Right, so where do you draw the line? > Not really a fair comparison, but no I don't think we should let you starve. Idiot or otherwise. Oh, sweet. Well, in that case, if you could send me some money, that would be awesome. I've made some bad decisions in my past and I'm nowhere near the quality of life that I should be. I actually make less the Fran from the article. Ethereum will work for sake of ease. Here's a wallet you can send it to: 0x52f4688802548121e1e404c26ef0e3d8a2667223 > Prove it, name an example country that is now a devastated wasteland for providing decent wages alone. OK, how about the United States. Poor people get a bad education and then many of them can't get a job because it's too expensive to hire them, especially when there are more qualified people available. They could have the opportunity to go work for a company for very cheap as an unskilled helper where they could learn skills on the job that will help them in the future, but it's illegal to pay them less than the minimum wage, so we had to set up an internship exclusion that will allow people to work for free (in exchange for those valuable skills) and is overwhelmingly college students. Now a poor person not only has to excel enough to get into college but they most likely will have to take out crazy loans just to get a foot in the door. ""But wait, America hasn't been devastated!"" Oh, yes it has. We just keep getting more credit cards to pay off the old ones without actually producing anything, so it doesn't seem like it yet (depending on how you feel about income inequality). Eventually those other countries will realize that they can make products for their own people and they don't actually need us, then you will see the quality of life go up in China (If they don't squander it all lining the pockets of political party members). Without a minimum wage, we would have never lost those jobs in the first place (I know automation is taking over, so manufacturing jobs aren't coming back anyways, but this is what has lead to our crazy trade deficit). > What policies would those be? I'm waiting for that ruined country. You're waiting, huh? Forgive me for not replying to your comment before you posted it. > Real world example or I am going to continue to assume you live in a alt-right fantasy. Ah, there it is. Because I don't think that government programs work as well as a free market system that has vastly improved the quality of life of the average person over the past couple hundred years, I must be alt-right. You realize that basically means white nationalist right? You're essentially calling me a nazi because you disagree with me on economic policy. ..maybe you do realize that. Sorry, you've got me questioning myself on how ignorant people can be."