"Collective bargaining existed before the government officially granted people that right. Since collective bargaining would still be legal without the NLRA, understand that essentially what you're saying is that you think there should be a law that bars people from negotiating contract as a group, in the process making it near impossible have the same resources to help them that the other side has (like lawyers, analysts, economists, PR people, etc). This would go against of right to freedom of association. I do understand your argument though. Someone's private company is their own, to do with what they'd like. However we've been through that in this country, and child labor, unsafe working conditions, and 80 hour weeks. Having labor laws has proven beneficial for everyone (even very weak laws compared with the rest of the industrial world), and raised living standards for millions. You may not realize it, but you have the labor movement to thank for many of the things that are just expected from employers today. Benefits, holidays, weekends, safety, overtime..without the labor movement raising standards in the private sector and pushing for govt. regulations, our working lives would look very different today. Like all laws, there is a balance to be struck between individual rights and the common good, and what can be seen as a ""right"" for one can often be seen as a ""right to violate another's rights"" for someone else. Don't people have the right to withhold their work when they feel like their dignity is trampled on? Not everyone can own a business of their own, so are the vast majority of us who will spend our lives working for someone else expected to have as little influence in our working lives as an indentured servant? You probably tow the libertarian line. However good this sounds on paper, it ignores the child of crackheads who has to work to feed his/her siblings. > The mighty is those who use the force of government or the threat of violence (e.g. violent strikes) to prevent another party from exercising their contract liberty and firing them. This is some pretty extreme hyperbole, and hard to take seriously. As someone who was recently involved in organizing their workplace, I can assure you that the deck is definitely stacked in favor of ownership. Modern anti-union strategies are sophisticated and implemented by highly-paid experts, skilled in using psychological tactics that your average worker just isn't ready for. Union membership in this country has dwindled to around 10%, down from around 50% during the middle of the century, and the erosion of the middle class has been the undeniable result. Use the ""force of government""? You know, we may have the right to strike in this country, but there's no law that says a company can't hire replacement workers, indefinitely. Plus, striking is not a risk-free action for someone barely getting by, especially when up against people who have enough money for 20 lifetimes. Threat of violence? Violent strikes? This is a straw-man if I've ever seen one. Who is threatening violence here? Objectively, when you look at the wealth disparity in this country, it's pretty hard to argue that the right to collective bargaining has resulted in an unfair advantage for workers."