First, radon is common in some areas of New Jersey. Before you back out of this house, you should consider if you can find a different place to live that does not have a radon issue. You should be able to find someone who does radon testing specifically. Such a company should be able to check that neither the gas nor the particulates (on walls, etc.) are present in the house after the mitigation. Apparently checking the water is possible as well. If such a test fails and the seller does not do more mitigation, that would be grounds for withdrawing from the contract. Since radon is common in New Jersey, it is likely that the contingencies are written such that the seller offering to mitigate is enough to keep you in the contract. You would have to ask a lawyer to be sure. In general, contingencies are based on the offer you made, which is a contract. If you wanted radon to be a deal breaker, then you should have written the offer that way. Left to themselves, real estate agents will offer mitigation instead. This is because they get paid a commission on the sale. No sale; no commission. Obviously too late for this house, but in the future, you may want to be more careful about this. Radon mitigation is common and costs in the $1000-$3000 range. One estimate in that link suggests that $1300 is the minimum with required fees, etc. If your offer is not written to allow you to walk away if there is a radon issue, you will probably lose your deposit if you walk away. You can also try to be extra picky about your contingencies. In particular, they have to show you that they have mitigated the radon problem. If you can find something that indicates that they have not, then you can get more mitigation. If they either fail to respond or choose not to respond, that could allow you to withdraw from the deal without losing your deposit. There usually aren't additional problems beyond losing your deposit from walking away. But again, this depends on the offer contract. This is really something that a lawyer should read.