Selective inhibition of Ras-dependent cell growth by farnesylthiosalisylic acid.

S-trans,trans-Farnesylthiosalicylic acid (FTS) is a novel farnesylated rigid carboxylic acid derivative. In cell-free systems, it acts as a potent competitive inhibitor (Ki = 2.6 microM) of the enzyme prenylated protein methyltransferase (PPMTase), which methylates the carboxyl-terminal S-prenylcysteine in a large number of prenylated proteins including Ras. In such systems, FTS inhibits Ras methylation but not Ras farnesylation. Inhibition of the PPMTase by FTS in homogenates or membranes of a variety of tissues and cell lines is inferred from a block in the methylation of exogenously added substrates such as N-acetyl-S-trans,trans-farnesyl-L-cysteine and of endogenous substrates including small GTP-binding proteins. FTS can also inhibit methylation of these proteins in intact cells (e.g. in Rat-1 fibroblasts, Ras-transformed Rat-1, and B16 melanoma cells). Unlike in cell-free systems, however, relatively high concentrations of FTS (50-100 microM) are required for partial blocking (10-40%) of protein methylation in the intact cells. Thus, FTS is a weak inhibitor of methylation in intact cells. Because methylation is the last step in the processing of Ras and related proteins, FTS is not likely to affect steps that precede it, e.g. protein prenylation. This may explain why the growth and gross morphology of a variety of cultured cell types (including Chinese hamster ovary, NIH3T3, Rat1, B16 melanoma, and PC12) is not affected by up to 25 microM FTS and is consistent with the observed lack of FTS-induced cytotoxicity. Nevertheless, FTS reduces the levels of Ras in cell membranes and can inhibit Ras-dependent cell growth in vitro, independently of methylation. It inhibits the growth of human Ha-ras-transformed cells (EJ cells) and reverses their transformed morphology in a dose-dependent manner (0.1-10 microM). The drug does not interfere with the growth of cells transformed by v-Raf or T-antigen but inhibits the growth of ErbB2-transformed cells and blocks the mitogenic effects of epidermal and basic fibroblast growth factors, thus implying its selectivity toward Ras growth signaling, possibly via modulation of Ras-Raf communication. Taken together, the results raise the possibility that FTS may specifically interfere with the interaction of Ras with a farnesylcysteine recognition domain in the cell membrane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)