Metabolic modifiers as performance-enhancing technologies for livestock production

With the current and predicted increase in world population, growing global demand and consumption of food will result in increasing competition for land, water, and energy. In turn, this will severely affect our ability to produce food as will the urgent requirement to reduce the impact of food systems on the environment (Godfray et al., 2010). Globalization has boosted trade in livestock inputs and products and resulted in industry growth, and concurrently livestock production has undergone a complex process of technical and geographical change (Gerber et al., 2007). This has resulted in a challenge to livestock producers; growing demand for their produce with a dwindling supply of resources, with the only solution being a significant increase in efficiency. Also, as incomes increase in the burgeoning economies, so does the demand for high-quality animal proteins such as meat, milk, and eggs; thus the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations suggests that food requirements will increase by 70% by 2050 (Anonymous, 2009). The recent success in developed and emerging technologies suggests that the animal industries are well placed to prosper through these new challenges. To ensure these technologies—such as metabolic modifiers including somatotropin, immunization against gonadotropin-releasing factor, and orally active dietary additives like ractopamine, zilpaterol, cysteamine, chromium, betaine, and dietary neuroleptics—can be effectively utilized throughout the animal industries, further emphasis is required on their acceptance and development. As a result of these technological advancements, producers have benefited because of improved production efficiencies while meat packers have improved processing efficiencies because of increased lean meat yield. Ostensibly, the consumer has also benefited because meat is leaner and less expensive to purchase. However, there have been some concerns that the focus on increasing production efficiency and lean meat yield has been to the detriment of meat quality (Dunshea et al., 2005). It is also interesting that at a time of apparently greater need for these technologies, there are external influences such as market differentiation and trade barriers as well as consumer resistance that challenge the use of technologies. A tenet of this article is that if we are to meet the increased global demand for animal protein, then we must continue to develop and adopt technologies to improve livestock efficiency, but we must be cognizant of the potential barriers affecting acceptance.