Exercise causes a tissue-specific change of NO production in the kidney and lung.

Nitric oxide (NO) is produced in the vascular endothelium and is a potent vasodilator substance that participates in the regulation of local vascular tone. Exercise causes peculiar changes in systemic and regional blood flow, i.e., an increase of systemic blood flow and a redistribution of local tissue blood flow, by which the blood flow is greatly increased in the working muscles, whereas it is decreased in some organs such as the kidney and intestine. Thus we hypothesized that exercise causes a tissue-specific change of NO production in some internal organs. We studied whether exercise affects expression of NO synthase (NOS) mRNA and protein, NOS activity, and tissue level of nitrite/nitrate (stable end products of NO) in the kidneys (in which blood flow during exercise is decreased) and lungs (in which blood flow during exercise is increased with the increase of cardiac output) of rat. Rats ran on a treadmill for 45 min at a speed of 25 m/min. Immediately after this exercise, kidneys and lungs were quickly removed. Control rats remained at rest during this 45-min period. Expression of endothelial NOS (eNOS) mRNA in the kidneys was markedly lower in exercise rats than in control rats, whereas that in the lungs was significantly higher in exercise rats than in control rats. Western blot analysis confirmed down- and upregulation of eNOS protein in the kidney and lung, respectively, after exercise. On the other hand, neither expression of neuronal NOS (nNOS) mRNA and nNOS protein nor inducible NOS (iNOS) mRNA and iNOS protein in the kidneys and lungs differed between exercise and control rats. NOS activity in the kidney was significantly lower in exercise rats than in control rats, whereas that in the lung was significantly higher in exercise rats than in control rats. On the other hand, the iNOS activity in the kidneys and lungs did not differ between exercise rats and control rats. Tissue nitrite/nitrate level in the kidneys was markedly lower in exercise rats, whereas that in the lungs was significantly higher in exercise rats. The present results show that production of NO is markedly and tissue-specifically changed in the kidney and lung by exercise.