Development of a syngeneic mouse model for events related to ovarian cancer.

Mouse ovarian surface epithelial cells (MOSEC) were obtained from virgin, mature mice by mild trypsinization and were repeatedly passaged in vitro. Early passage cells (<20 passages) exhibited a cobblestone morphology and contact inhibition of growth. After approximately 20 passages in vitro, cobblestone morphology and contact inhibition of growth was lost. Tumor forming potential was determined by s.c. and i.p. injection of early and late passage cells into athymic and syngeneic C57BL6 mice. Subcutaneous tumors formed in approximately 4 months and were present only at the injection site. Intraperitoneal injection of late passage MOSEC into athymic and syngeneic mice resulted in growth of tumor implants throughout the abdominal cavity, and production of hemorrhagic ascitic fluid. Early passage MOSEC did not form tumors in vivo. Histopathologic analysis of tumors revealed a highly malignant neoplasm containing both carcinomatous and sarcomatous components. Late passage MOSEC expressed cytokeratin and did not produce ovarian steroids in response to gonadotropin stimulation in vitro. Ten clonal lines were established from late passage MOSEC. Each clone formed multiple peritoneal tumors and ascitic fluid after i.p. injection into C57BL6 mice. Three cell lines examined cytogenetically were polyploid with near-tetraploid modal chromosome numbers. Common clonal chromosome gains and losses included +5, +15, +19 and -X, -3, -4. One cell line had a clonal translocation between chromosomes 15 and 18 and another had a small marker chromosome; common structural abnormalities were not observed. These data describe the development of a mouse model for the study of events related to ovarian cancer in humans. The ability of the MOSEC to form extensive tumors within the peritoneal cavity, similar to those seen in women with Stage III and IV cancer, and the ability of the MOSEC to produce tumors in mice with intact immune systems, makes this model unique for investigations of molecular and immune interactions in ovarian cancer development.