Renal Disease and Pregnancy

Pregnancy in women with different renal diseases has important consequences for the developing fetus and maternal health. Kidneys and the urinary tract have to adapt to the pregnancy status and therefore suffer significant anatomical, hemodynamic and endocrine changes. Failure to adapt can aggravate the preexisting maternal disease and can also create suboptimal environment for fetal development and increase the risk of obstetric complications. Knowledge and correct interpretation of the renal functional tests is necessary for the modern obstetrician, avoiding an incorrect diagnosis for renal disease where only specific renal changes during pregnancy are present, but meanwhile a correct evaluation of the renal function and changes can detect a pathology that can aggravate both the mother’s and the baby’s condition. Improvement and better understanding of the renal pathophysiology in pregnancy made possible that pregnant woman look forward for a good outcome, including here also the women with renal transplant. Nowadays is underlined the concept of multidisciplinary teamwork, a very important concept of modern medicine. The obstetrician should consider nephrologists as key players in the team and in our opinion should refer to them the pregnant women for a routine check-up of the renal status in the 2nd or beginning of 3rd trimester by ultrasound, beside the usual blood and urine analysis. The nephrologists and urologists should be involved in the management of severe medical conditions, such as preeclampsia, acute and chronic renal failure and never the less in the complex management of dialysis or renal transplant patients. In pregnancy it can be encountered several renal diseases, some of them preexisting the pregnancy and other developed or being direct influenced by pregnancy. This chapter will discuss briefly the basic evaluation of renal status in order to present and better understand the acute and chronic renal disorders in pregnancy. The chapter will focus on the most common preexisting diseases in pregnancy such as: chronic glomerulonephritis, secondary glomerular nephropathies, interstitial nephropathies (chronic pyelonephritis, renal tuberculosis), diabetes nephropathy, unique surgical kidney, chronic renal failure. From the renal diseases directly influenced by pregnancy it will be discussed: asymptomatic bacteriuria, symptomatic urinary infection, urolithiasis and acute renal failure in pregnancy. It will be presented also the management of dialysis in pregnancy and pregnant women with renal transplant.