Cloning of factors related to HIV-inducible LBP proteins that regulate steroidogenic factor-1-independent human placental transcription of the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme, P450scc.

The cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme, cytochrome P450scc, initiates the biosynthesis of all steroid hormones. Adrenal and gonadal strategies for P450scc gene transcription are essentially identical and depend on the orphan nuclear receptor steroidogenic factor-1, but the placental strategy for transcription of P450scc employs cis-acting elements different from those used in the adrenal strategy and is independent of steroidogenic factor-1. Because placental expression of P450scc is required for human pregnancy, we sought factors that bind to the -155/-131 region of the human P450scc promoter, which participates in its placental but not adrenal or gonadal transcription. A yeast one-hybrid screen of 2.4 x 10(6) cDNA clones from human placental JEG-3 cells yielded two unique clones; one is the previously described transcription factor LBP-1b, which is induced by HIV, type I infection of lymphocytes, and the other is a new factor, termed LBP-9, that shares 83% amino acid sequence identity with LBP-1b. When expressed in transfected yeast, both factors bound specifically to the -155/-131 DNA; antisera to LBP proteins supershifted the LBP-9.DNA complex and inhibited formation of the LBP-1b. DNA complex. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction detected LBP-1b in human placental JEG-3, adrenal NCI-H295A, liver HepG2, cervical HeLa, and monkey kidney COS-1 cells, but LBP-9 was detected only in JEG-3 cells. When the -155/-131 fragment was linked to a minimal promoter, co-expression of LBP-1b increased transcription 21-fold in a dose-dependent fashion, but addition of LBP-9 suppressed the stimulatory effect of LBP-1b. The roles of LBP transcription factors in normal human physiology have been unclear. Their modulation of placental but not adrenal P450scc transcription underscores the distinctiveness of placental strategies for steroidogenic enzyme gene transcription.