Th2-mediated host protective immunity to intestinal nematode infections.

Despite many years of study, relatively little is known about the effector mechanisms that operate against intestine-dwelling nematodes. Most of the current understanding comes from studies of laboratory model systems in rodents. It is clear that when an intestinal helminth infection takes place the immune system generates a strong Th2-mediated response, which regulates a variety of responses characteristic of helminth infections such as eosinophilia, intestinal mastocytosis and elevated IgE production. The ability to modulate the host's immune response in vivo with cytokine-specific monoclonal antibodies and recombinant cytokines, together with the use of animals with disruption of key genes involved in the immune response, have provided powerful tools with which to dissect the potential effector mechanisms operating. In the absence of a T-cell compartment the host is unable to expel the parasite. If a Th1-dominated response is generated, protective immunity is almost universally compromised. Thus, it it would appear that some aspect of a Th2-mediated response controls effector mechanisms. Although it is clear that for some infections the mast cell appears to be involved in protection, probably through the generation of a non-specific inflammatory response, how these cells become activated remains unclear. Data from infections in transgenic animals suggest that activation is not through the high-affinity receptor for IgE. Such studies also call into doubt the importance of conventional interactions between effector leucocytes and antibody. There is little evidence to support a protective role for eosinophilia in any system. New data also imply that, although interleukin 4 (IL-4) is generally important (and can exert effects independent of an adaptive immune response), it is not always sufficient to mediate protection; other Th2 cytokines (e.g. IL-13) may warrant closer investigation. It is apparent that a number of potential Th2-controlled effector mechanisms (some of which may be particularly important at mucosal surfaces) remain to be explored. Overall, it is likely that worm expulsion is the result of a combination of multiple mechanisms, some of which are more critical to some species of parasite than to others.