Moist occlusive dressing (Aquacel(®) Ag) versus moist open dressing (MEBO(®)) in the management of partial-thickness facial burns: a comparative study in Ain Shams University.

INTRODUCTION The face is the central point of the physical features; it transmits expressions and emotions, communicates feelings and allows for individual identity. Facial burns are very common and are devastating to the affected patient and results into numerous physical, emotional and psychosocial sequels. Partial thickness facial burns are very common especially among children. This study compares the effect of standard moist open technique management and a moist closed technique for partial thickness burns of the face. PATIENTS AND METHODS Patients with partial-thickness facial burns admitted in the burn unit, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt in the period from April 2009 to December 2009 were included in this study. They were divided into two groups to receive either open treatment with MEBO(®) (n=20) or coverage with Aquacel(®) Ag (n=20). Demographics (age, gender, ethnicity, TBSA, burn areas), length of hospital stay (LOS), rate of infections, time to total healing, frequency of dressing changes, pain, cost benefit and patient discomfort were compared between the two groups. The long-term outcome (incidence of hypertrophic scarring) was assessed for up to 6 months follow-up period. RESULTS There were no significant differences in demographics between the two groups. In the group treated with the Aquacel(®) Ag, the mean time for re-epithelialization was 10.5 days, while it was 12.4 days in the MEBO(®) group (p<0.05). Frequency of changes, pain and patient discomfort were less with Aquacel(®) Ag. Cost was of no significant difference between the two groups. Scar quality improved in the Aquacel(®) Ag treatment group. Three and 6 months follow-up was done and long-term outcomes were recorded in both groups. CONCLUSION Moist occlusive dressing (Aquacel(®) Ag) significantly improves the management and healing rate of partial thickness facial burns with better long-term outcome compared to moist open dressing (MEBO(®)).