A diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging study of corpus callosum from adult patients with migraine complicated with depressive/anxious disorder.

OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to investigate the possible microstructural abnormalities of the corpus callosum (CC) in adult patients with migraine without aura complicated with depressive/anxious disorder. BACKGROUND Emotional disorders, especially depression and anxiety, are with relatively higher incidence in migraine population. However, the mechanism of migraine complicated with depressive/anxious disorder remains unclear. METHODS Diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging was carried out in 12 adult patients with simple migraine (without aura and without depressive/anxious disorder) (S-M group), 12 adult patients with complicated migraine (without aura but complicated with depressive/anxious disorder) (Co-M group), and 12 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects (Control group). Fractional anisotropy (FA) and apparent diffusion coefficient were measured at genu, body, and splenium of the CC, respectively. RESULTS There were significant differences in FA values at all locations of the CC among the 3 groups. The FA values from both the SM and Co-M groups were significantly lower than the control (P < .05 and P < .01, respectively). The FA values from Co-M group were significantly lower than the SM group (P < .01). The apparent diffusion coefficient values of the above regions had no significant differences among these groups (P > .05). There were negative correlations between FA value of genu of the CC and disease course as well as FA value of genu and body of the CC and headache frequency (P < .05). Negative correlations were also found between FA values at all locations of the CC and Hamilton anxiety and Hamilton depression scores (both P < .05). CONCLUSIONS There might be an integrity change of neurofibrotic microstructures existing as a possible neuroanatomical basis in the CC of migraine patients complicated with depressive/anxious disorder.