[Acupuncture combined with auricular point sticking therapy for post stroke depression:a randomized controlled trial].

OBJECTIVE To observe the clinical effects of acupuncture combined with auricular point sticking based on the western medication for post stroke depression (PSD). METHODS Sixty patients with PSD were randomly assigned into an acupuncture plus auricular application group (a combination group) and a medication group, 30 cases in each one. 20 mg paroxetine hydrochloride was prescribed orally in the medication group, once a day for continuous 8 weeks. Based on the above treatment, 30-minute acupuncture was used in the combination group for 8 weeks at Baihui (GV 20), Sishencong (EX-HN 1), Shenting (GV 24), Yintang (GV 29), Shenmen (HT 7), Neiguan (PC 6), Taichong (LR 3), Hegu (LI 4), Zusanli (ST 36), Sanyinjiao (SP 6) and Fenglong (ST 40), once the other day and three times a week. Auricular point sticking therapy for 8 weeks was applied at shenmen (TF4), pizhixia (AT4), xin (CO15), and gan (CO12), with pressing 3 times a day and once 3-5 days. The total score and each factor scores of Hamilton's depression scale (HAMD) were observed in the two groups before and after treatment, and Asberg's antidepressant side-effect rating scale (SERS) and clinical effect were evaluated. RESULTS After treatment, the total HAMD scores of the two groups decreased compared with those before treatment (both P<0.05), with better effect in the combination group (P<0.05). The scores of the combination group after treatment were lower than those in the medication group, including the anxiety/somatization factor, sleep disturbance factor, hopelessness factor (all P<0.05). The total effective rate of the combination group was 86.7% (26/30), which was better than 66.7% (20/30) of the medication group (P<0.05). The SERS score of the combination group was lower than that of the medication group (P<0.05). CONCLUSIONS Acupuncture combined with auricular point sticking can improve the clinical symptoms and are effective and safe for PSD.