[Efficacy on post-stroke depression treated with acupuncture at the acupoints based on ziwuliuzhu and prozac].

OBJECTIVE To observe the effects on post-stroke depression treated with acupuncture at the acu points based on ziwuliuzhu (the midnight-noon ebb-flow theory). METHODS Ninety-three patients were randomized into a comprehensive group, a ziwuliuzhu group and a prozac group, 31 cases in each group. In the ziwuliuzhu group, acupuncture was applied to the acupoints based on ziwuliuzhu, once a day, 5 times in a week. In the prozac group, fluoxertine hydrochloride (prozac) was prescribed for oral administration, once a day, 20 mg each time. In the comprehensive group, acupuncture based on ziwuliuzhu combined with the oral administration of prozac were adopted and the treatment frequency was the same as the ziwuliuzhu group and the prozac group. The 4-week treatment was taken as one session in the three groups and 6 sessions were required totally. The clinical efficacy and the Hamilton depression rating scale (HAMD) score and the adverse reaction were compared among the 3 groups. RESULTS The total effective rate was 96.8% (30/31) in the comprehensive group, better than 83.9% (26/31) in the ziwuliuzhu group and 80. 6% (25/31) in the prozac group (both P<0.05). In 4, 12 and 24 weeks of treatment, HAMD score was lower significantly than that before the treatment in the three groups (all P<0.05), and the score in the comprehensive group at each time point after treatment was lower than the other two groups (all P<0.05). In 4 and 12 weeks of treatment, there were not different significantly between the ziwuliuzhu group and the prozac group (both P>0.05). In 24 weeks of treatment, HAMD score in the ziwuliuzhu group was lower than that in the prozac group (P<0.05). For the adverse reaction, there were 2 cases in the comprehensive group, 6 cases in the prozac group and 0 case in the ziwzuliuzhu group. CONCLUSION The comprehensive therapy of acupuncture at the acupoints based on ziwuliuzhu and oral administration of prozac is superior to either the simple oral administration of prozac or the ziwuliuzhu acu-puncture in terms of clinical efficacy and the improvements in depressive state. Regarding the clinical efficacy, the impact of simple ziwuliuzhu acupuncture is not different significantly as compared with the simple oral administration of prozac, but it is better than the simple oral administration of prozac in terms of the long-term HAMD score and safety.