Activation of AMP-activated protein kinase suppresses oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced macrophage proliferation.

Macrophage-derived foam cells play important roles in the progression of atherosclerosis. We reported previously that ERK1/2-dependent granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) expression, leading to p38 MAPK/ Akt signaling, is important for oxidized low density lipoprotein (Ox-LDL)-induced macrophage proliferation. Here, we investigated whether activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) could suppress macrophage proliferation. Ox-LDL-induced proliferation of mouse peritoneal macrophages was assessed by [(3)H]thymidine incorporation and cell counting assays. The proliferation was significantly inhibited by the AMPK activator 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleoside (AICAR) and restored by dominant-negative AMPKalpha1, suggesting that AMPK activation suppressed macrophage proliferation. AICAR partially suppressed Ox-LDL-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation and GM-CSF expression, suggesting that another mechanism is also involved in the AICAR-mediated suppression of macrophage proliferation. AICAR suppressed GM-CSF-induced macrophage proliferation without suppressing p38 MAPK/Akt signaling. GM-CSF suppressed p53 phosphorylation and expression and induced Rb phosphorylation. Overexpression of p53 or p27(kip) suppressed GM-CSF-induced macrophage proliferation. AICAR induced cell cycle arrest, increased p53 phosphorylation and expression, and suppressed GM-CSF-induced Rb phosphorylation via AMPK activation. Moreover, AICAR induced p21(cip) and p27(kip) expression via AMPK activation, and small interfering RNA (siRNA) of p21(cip) and p27(kip) restored AICAR-mediated suppression of macrophage proliferation. In conclusion, AMPK activation suppressed Ox-LDL-induced macrophage proliferation by suppressing GM-CSF expression and inducing cell cycle arrest. These effects of AMPK activation may represent therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis.