The last and the next hundred years of malariology.

The founding fathers of malariology combined scientific originality, perseverance in research, strong characters, breadth of interest and social concern. A hundred years later research and understanding has made immense progress but the world still bears a huge burden of malaria. For the next century research requires both more specialism and a holistic range if it is to be used in control, requiring multidisciplinary team work. Environmental changes and interventions produce a dynamic and changing pattern of malaria, not the static one of the past. From the original parasite life cycle, research has analysed a series of other cycles at electron microscope, biochemical and genome levels on decreasing size scales and quantitative epidemiological cycles for control. Recent additions to these concepts have been stage-specific antigens, cycles of disease rather than parasites alone, considering populations of parasites rather than just cases, and also genetic variation in each component of the parasite-human host-vector triad. In this volume there emerges for the first time a coherent overall picture of the biomedical aspects of basic malariology as the interacting population genetics of malaria parasites, anophelines and people. This provides a coherent model for the new century dealing with the great biological malaria problems of drug resistance, vaccine development, insecticidal and net control and can feed, with socio-economic work, into the gathering renewal of control efforts. New work on large-scale changes of malaria in space and time enables us to be precise about effects of local and global environmental changes to predict epidemics. Future research will be as much about linking these different scales of understanding as control will be about linking different levels of the health system. The grim situation in poor holoendemic countries also requires practical support of the type that the founders of malariology were involved in. A coherent understanding needs to feed into the new control efforts, from Roll Back Malaria onwards, for the next century.