Quality of life of young adults with idiopathic short stature: effect of growth hormone treatment. Dutch Growth Hormone Working Group.

The aim of the study was to evaluate whether treatment with recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) affects the quality of life of young adults who were diagnosed as idiopathic short stature (ISS) during childhood, and whether their quality of life and aspects of the personality are different from normal. Experiences and expectations concerning rhGH treatment of the subjects and their parents were also investigated. Eighty-nine subjects were included into the study: 24 subjects (16M, 8F) were treated with rhGH from childhood, whereas 65 subjects (40M, 25F) were never treated. At the time of the interview all subjects had attained final height [mean (SD) -2.3 (0.9) SDS for Dutch references], and the age of the treated subjects was 20.5 (1.0) y, and 25.7 (3.5) y of the control subjects (p < 0.001). The level of education was similar, but the treated subjects had less often a partner compared to the control subjects (adjusted for age and gender, p < 0.001). The Nottingham Health Profile and Short Form 36 Health Survey showed no difference in general health state between treated and control subjects, and the healthy Dutch age-specific references (norm group). Although 74% of the subjects reported one or more negative events related to their height, and 61% would like to be taller, only 22% and 11% were willing to trade-off at Time Trade-Off and Standard Gamble, respectively. The personality of the subjects, which was measured by the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, was not different from the norm group. The satisfaction with the rhGH treatment was high, as it had caused 12 (8) cm and 13 (7) cm gain in final height according to the subjects and parents, respectively. Based on initial predicted adult height (Bayley & Pinneau), this gain was only 3.3 (5.6) cm. We concluded that although the treated subjects had a partner less often when compared to the control subjects, the quality of life of subjects with ISS at adult age is normal and appears not to be affected by rhGH therapy, The treated subjects were very satisfied with the treatment, probably by overestimation of the final height gain.