[Pharmacokinetics and biotransformation of the antimycotic drug ciclopiroxolamine in animals and man after topical and systemic administration].

1. Following the dermal application of the carbon-14 labelled broad spectrum antimycotic 6-cyclohexyl-1-hydroxy-4-methyl-2(1H)-pyridone, 2-aminoethanol salt (ciclopiroxolamine, Hoe 296, Batrafen) in the form of a 1% aqueous cream to healthy human dorsal skin (penetration time: 6 h; occlusive dressing for 5 h), percutaneous absorption accounted on average for 1.3% of the dose applied. Excretion occurred via the kidney, with biological half-lives of 1.7 h. As can be seen from penetration studies of cadaverous skin, the horny layer contained the highest concentrations, with values of 2300-4500 microgram/cm3. The levels determined in the corium were still above the minimum inhibitory concentrations. These concentrations were already obtained at the first test stage (1.5 h after application) and did not change virtually at all over the longer penetration period. According to studies using histoautoradiography, ciclopirox can penetrate the skin via the epidermis and the hair follicles. When ciclopirox-14C-olamine aqueous cream was spread on the surface of fingernails, the radioactive-labelled compound penetrated right through the nail. The percutaneous absorption in dogs was higher, at 5-15% of the dose, than it was in humans. 2. After vaginal application (1 mg/kg) of ciclopirox-14C-olamine in the form of a 1% aqueous cream to bitches, between 42 and 97% of the dose (depending on the animal) was recovered in the urine and faeces, the remainder having penetrated into the tampon used to close the vagina. 3. Ciclopirox is excreted by dogs and man in the urine, primarily as a glucuronide. In humans another glucuronide with properties similar to those of the original substance was detected. Two conjugated, relatively non-polar metabolites were also present in small amounts. The metabolite patterns after oral and dermal application were similar. The binding of ciclopirox to serum proteins in humans was 96 +/- 2% in a concentration range of 0.01-11.0 microgram/ml. 4. Placental transfer was low in the rats studied. Though there was good absorption by the mother animal, the radioactivity in the foetal tissues was always lower than that of the maternal blood.