The role of prevention in oncology practice: results from a 2004 survey of American Society of Clinical Oncology members.

PURPOSE In 2004, the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Cancer Prevention Committee surveyed the members to describe involvement in clinical prevention activities. METHODS A previously administered survey, with updated items on genetics, chemoprevention, and survivorship, was mailed to a stratified random sample of 2,000 domestic members and a convenience sample of 3,144 international members. RESULTS A total of 49.7% of domestic members contacted and survey eligible responded (n = 851). Nonresponders were younger (50.5 v 51.7 years; P < .01); 465 international members responded. Overall, 35% had received formal instruction in cancer prevention and control, and most respondents expected increased use of prevention, screening/early detection, and risk reduction/genetic counseling in their practices in the next 5 years. Most reported caring for cancer survivors, including providing general medical care. They also either directly provide or refer patients for cancer prevention and control services (eg, cancer screening, tobacco and nutrition counseling, risk reduction, and chemoprevention). Multivariable modeling found fewer perceived barriers to inclusion of cancer prevention activities in clinical practice among those practicing in an academic setting, seeing a higher proportion of patients without a cancer diagnosis, having formal training in prevention and control, expecting an increase in prevention activities in the next 5 years, and providing community advice on prevention. CONCLUSION Barriers to the inclusion of cancer prevention and control activities in oncology clinical practice exist. Nevertheless, a substantial proportion of both domestic and international ASCO members report an interest in cancer prevention and control activities, with a desire for more specific educational programs in this emerging area of oncology practice.