High and low fat consumers, their macronutrient intake and body mass index: further analysis of the National Diet and Nutrition Survey of British Adults.

OBJECTIVES To explore the different characteristics of high and low fat consumers, in particular their macronutrient intake and body mass index. DESIGN Reanalysis of data from the Dietary and Nutritional Survey of British Adults. Comparisons were made between groups defined as high and low fat consumers on the basis of 7-day weighed food records considered to be valid for energy intake. Individuals were classified in two ways according to the percentage energy from fat (FAT%) and the absolute amount of fat consumed (FATg). The criteria for classification of the high FAT% being > 45% (high fat) and < or = 35% (low fat). For the FATg group the threshold for the high fat group was > 138 g/day (men) and > 102 g/day (women), and for the low fat group < 85 g/day (men) and < 70 g/day (women). SETTING Dietary data was collected from private households in Great Britain between 1986 and 1987. SUBJECTS From the total population of 2197, individuals who were slimming, ill or had an EI: BMR of < 1.2 were excluded in order to use data which was most likely to represent habitual energy intakes. From the remaining 1240 subjects, 10.8% of this sample (6.1% of the total population) were classified as low fat consumers (76 men and 58 women) and 15.4% high fat (8.7% of the total population, 93 men and 98 women). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Macronutrient consumption and body mass index (BMI). RESULTS 30% of the subjects changed fat group classification when the criteria of defining high and low fat groups altered from FAT% to FATg. Nutrient intakes differed according to definition of the groups. The high fat FATg group ate significantly more of all nutrients than the low fat FATg group. However, this was not seen for the FAT% analysis, with the high fat group eating more fat and less carbohydrate. The average BMI tended to be higher in the high fat than the low fat groups, particularly in the FATg analysis. However, the high fat group contained a wide range of BMIs. Further exploration of BMI in the high fat groups, showed that age (an 11-year difference) was the only variable to distinguish individuals in the top and bottom quartiles of BMI. CONCLUSIONS High and low fat consumers differ according to a number of variables, and this is affected by how these groups are defined (FAT% or FATg). High fat consumers tend to have a higher BMI than low fat consumers, but not all high fat consumers are overweight or obese.