Angiogenesis therapy: amidst the hype, the neglected potential for serious side effects.

Although essentially unknown as a therapeutic concept as recently as a decade ago, it is difficult now to open a cardiology journal, attend a cardiology meeting, or scan a newspaper without being caught up in the excitement generated by the thought that angiogenesis therapy may soon have a major impact on the treatment of patients with atherosclerotic lesions obstructing arteries that supply the myocardium or legs. Potent therapeutic interventions, however, are rarely free of at least the potential for causing harmful effects. Angiogenesis therapy is no exception. Despite this and despite the fact that the only reasonably powered, randomized, double-blind clinical studies to date have failed to demonstrate primary end-point efficacy,1 thoughtful consideration of the serious side effects that might accompany any therapeutic benefit has been largely missing from scientific communications. For the lay media, a switch from this unbounded enthusiasm to profound skepticism occurred recently after a report of the tragic death of a young man caused by injection of large amounts of an adenoviral vector into the hepatic artery (unrelated to angiogenesis therapy).2 For the scientific community, however, there has been a general lack of in-depth discussion of the potential dangers inherent in angiogenesis interventions. Such a discussion is appropriate not only because of the event cited above but also because considerable mechanistic data are available that actually permit us to identify specific side effects that we might anticipate as potential complications of angiogenesis therapy. The following therefore is a discussion of potential complications based predominantly on our knowledge of the underlying biological activities of 2 of the most potent angiogenic cytokines, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). Angiogenic agents are thought to have the potential to induce neovascularization in many different tissues. This becomes important in that under clinical circumstances it …