Aberrant pro-atrial natriuretic peptide/corin/natriuretic peptide receptor signaling is present in maternal vascular endothelium in preeclampsia.

OBJECTIVE Corin is a serine protease that converts pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (pro-ANP) to atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a cardiac hormone that regulates salt-water balance and blood pressure. ANP is degraded by natriuretic peptide receptor (NPR). This study was to determine if aberrant pro-ANP/corin/NPR signaling is present in maternal vascular system in preeclampsia. STUDY DESIGN Maternal venous blood was obtained from 197 pregnant women (84 normotensive, 16 complicated with chronic hypertension (CHT), 11 mild and 86 severe preeclampsia). Plasma corin and pro-ANP concentrations were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Maternal subcutaneous fat tissue was obtained from 12 pregnant women with cesarean section delivery (6 normotensive and 6 preeclampsia). Vascular ANP and its receptors NPR-A, NPR-B, and NPR-C expression were examined by immunostaining of paraffin embedded subcutaneous fat tissue sections. RESULTS Corin concentrations were significantly higher in mild (2.78 ± 0.67 ng/ml, p < .05) and severe (2.53 ± 0.18 ng/ml, p < .01) preeclampsia than in normotensive (1.58 ± 0.08 ng/ml) and CHT (1.55 ± 0.20 ng/ml) groups. Pro-ANP concentrations were significantly higher in CHT (1.59 ± 0.53 ng/ml, p < .05) and severe preeclampsia (1.42 ± 0.24 ng/ml, p < .01) than in normotensive (0.48 ± 0.06 ng/ml) and mild preeclampsia (0.52 ± 0.09 ng/ml) groups. ANP and NPR-B expression was undetectable in maternal vessels from normotensive and preeclamptic pregnancies, but reduced NPR-A expression and increased NPR-C expression was found in maternal vessel endothelium in preeclampsia. CONCLUSIONS ANP is a vasodilator and NPR-C is a clearance receptor for ANP. The finding of upregulation of NPR-C expression suggests that circulating ANP clearance or degradation is increased in preeclampsia. These results also suggest that pro-ANP/corin/NPR signaling is dominant in the vascular system in preeclampsia.