Elevated expression of miR-24-3p is a potentially adverse prognostic factor in colorectal adenocarcinoma.

OBJECTIVES Several miRNAs are aberrantly expressed in cancer. miR-24-3p is involved in cancer-related cellular processes, including cell cycle control, cell growth, proliferation, and apoptosis. In this study, we examined the potential diagnostic and prognostic significance of miR-24-3p expression in colorectal adenocarcinoma. DESIGN AND METHODS Total RNA was isolated from 182 colorectal adenocarcinoma specimens and 86 paired non-cancerous colorectal mucosae. After polyadenylation of 2μg total RNA and reverse transcription into first-strand cDNA using an oligo-dT-adapter primer, miR-24-3p expression was quantified using an in-house-developed reverse-transcription real-time quantitative PCR method, based on the SYBR Green chemistry. SNORD43 (RNU43) was used as a reference gene. RESULTS miR-24-3p levels do not significantly differ between colorectal adenocarcinoma and non-cancerous colorectal mucosae. Thus, miR-24-3p expression cannot be used for diagnostic purposes. However, high miR-24-3p expression predicts poor disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) of colorectal adenocarcinoma patients. Multivariate Cox regression analysis confirmed that miR-24-3p overexpression is a significant predictor of relapse in colorectal adenocarcinoma and that its prognostic significance is independent of other established prognostic factors and treatment of patients. Of note, miR-24-3p overexpression retains its rather unfavorable prognostic value in the subgroup of patients with advanced yet locally restricted colorectal adenocarcinoma (T3) and in those without distant metastasis (M0). Moreover, miR-24-3p overexpression is a potentially unfavorable prognosticator for patients who were not treated with radiotherapy. CONCLUSIONS Strong expression of miR-24-3p predicts poor DFS and OS of colorectal adenocarcinoma patients, independently of clinicopathological parameters that are currently used for prognosis in this human malignancy.