Liver transplantation and opioid dependence.

ContextChronic hepatitis C is the leading cause for liver transplantation in the United States. Intravenous drug use, the major risk factor, accounts for approximately 60% of hepatitis C virus transmission. Information from the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) does not address substance use among liver transplantation patients. ObjectiveTo identify addiction-related criteria for admission to the UNOS liver transplantation waiting list and posttransplantation problems experienced by patients who are prescribed maintenance methadone. Design, Setting, and ParticipantsMail survey of all 97 adult US liver transplantation programs (belonging to UNOS) in March 2000 with telephone follow-up conducted in May and June 2000.Main Outcome MeasuresPrograms' acceptance and management of patients with past or present substance use disorder. ResultsOf the 97 programs surveyed, 87 (90%) responded. All accept applicants with a history of alcoholism or other addictions, including heroin dependence. Eighty-eight percent of the responding programs require at least 6 months of abstinence from alcohol; 83% from illicit drugs. Ninety-four percent have addiction treatment requirements. Consultations from substance abuse specialists are obtained by 86%. Patients receiving methadone maintenance are accepted by 56% of the responding programs. Approximately 180 patients receiving methadone maintenance are reported to have undergone liver transplantation. ConclusionsMost liver transplantation programs have established policies for patients with substance use disorders. Opiate-dependent patients receiving opiate replacement therapy seem underrepresented in transplantation programs. Little anecdotal evidence for negative impact of opiate replacement therapy on liver transplantation outcome was found. Policies requiring discontinuation of methadone in 32% of all programs contradict the evidence base for efficacy of long-term replacement therapies and potentially result in relapse of previously stable patients.