Atherosclerotic plaque rupture--pathologic basis of plaque stability and instability.

Time for primary reveiw 27 days Atherosclerosis continues to be one of the main subjects in pathology research. The intriguing complexity of its pathogenesis as well as the importance of its clinical sequelae provide a rationale for this [1]. A large number of diseases with totally different clinical presentations are basically atherosclerosis related, and among these, myocardial infarction, stroke, abdominal aneurysms and lower limb ischemia determine to a large extent the morbidity and mortality in Western style populations. But, despite this broad spectrum of clinical disease, most of the acute manifestations of atherosclerosis share a common pathogenetic feature: rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque [2–4]. Plaque disruptions may vary greatly in extent from tiny fissures or erosions of the plaque surface to deep intimal tears which extend into the soft lipid core of lesions; in all these instances, at least some degree of thrombus formation occurs [5, 6]. The abdominal aorta is the arterial site most prominently involved in the process of plaque formation, and also of plaque complications. In this large diameter vessel the process of plaque disruption and thrombosis is not ended by luminal occlusion, and may lead to extensive surface ulcerations comprising large areas of the aortic wall, as can be observed in many autopsy cases at older age. Apart from the undisputable role of atherosclerosis in abdominal aneurysm formation [7], mural thrombosis leads to a surprisingly low rate of clinically significant complications in these patients, although cholesterol emboli can be regularly found in their kidneys and skin at autopsy. Still, it is presently unclear what impact the various biologically active mediators released from eroded aortic surfaces may have on the human body. In contrast, in small diameter vessels such as coronary arteries, occlusive thrombosis is a frequent and often fatal complication of plaque … * Corresponding author. Tel.: +31-20-5665-633; fax: +31-20-914-738; e-mail a.c.vanderwal@amc.uva.nl