SATB1 Expression Governs Epigenetic Repression of PD‐1 in Tumor‐Reactive T Cells

&NA; Despite the importance of programmed cell death‐1 (PD‐1) in inhibiting T cell effector activity, the mechanisms regulating its expression remain poorly defined. We found that the chromatin organizer special AT‐rich sequence‐binding protein‐1 (Satb1) restrains PD‐1 expression induced upon T cell activation by recruiting a nucleosome remodeling deacetylase (NuRD) complex to Pdcd1 regulatory regions. Satb1 deficienct T cells exhibited a 40‐fold increase in PD‐1 expression. Tumor‐derived transforming growth factor &bgr; (Tgf‐&bgr;) decreased Satb1 expression through binding of Smad proteins to the Satb1 promoter. Smad proteins also competed with the Satb1‐NuRD complex for binding to Pdcd1 enhancers, releasing Pdcd1 expression from Satb1‐mediated repression, Satb1‐deficient tumor‐reactive T cells lost effector activity more rapidly than wild‐type lymphocytes at tumor beds expressing PD‐1 ligand (CD274), and these differences were abrogated by sustained CD274 blockade. Our findings suggest that Satb1 functions to prevent premature T cell exhaustion by regulating Pdcd1 expression upon T cell activation. Dysregulation of this pathway in tumor‐infiltrating T cells results in diminished anti‐tumor immunity. Graphical Abstract Figure. No caption available. HighlightsT cell activation increased the expression of Satb1 in mature CD8+ and CD4+ T cellsRecruitment of the NuRD repression complex by Satb1 inhibits expression of Pdcd1In tumors, TGF‐&bgr; inhibits Satb1 expression in T cells, increasing Pdcd1 expressionSatb1−/− T cells express high amounts of PD‐1 and have decreased anti‐tumor activity &NA; Stephen et al. show that the chromatin organizer Satb1 controls expression levels of PD‐1 upon T cell activation through the recruitment of a de‐acetylase complex to regulatory regions of the Pdcd1 gene. Tumor‐derived TGF‐&bgr; dysregulates this pathway, unleashing PD‐1 expression in tumor‐infiltrating T cells and decreasing anti‐tumor immunity.