Impact of diabetes on long-term prognosis in patients with unstable angina and non-Q-wave myocardial infarction: results of the OASIS (Organization to Assess Strategies for Ischemic Syndromes) Registry.

BACKGROUND Although unstable coronary artery disease is the most common reason for admission to a coronary care unit, the long-term prognosis of patients with this diagnosis is unknown. This is particularly true for patients with diabetes mellitus, who are known to have a high morbidity and mortality after an acute myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS Prospectively collected data from 6 different countries in the Organization to Assess Strategies for Ischemic Syndromes (OASIS) registry were analyzed to determine the 2-year prognosis of diabetic and nondiabetic patients who were hospitalized with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Overall, 1718 of 8013 registry patients (21%) had diabetes. Diabetic patients had a higher rate of coronary bypass surgery than nondiabetic patients (23% versus 20%, P:<0.001) but had similar rates of catheterization and angioplasty. Diabetes independently predicted mortality (relative risk [RR], 1.57; 95% CI, 1.38 to 1.81; P:<0.001), as well as cardiovascular death, new myocardial infarction, stroke, and new congestive heart failure. Moreover, compared with their nondiabetic counterparts, women had a significantly higher risk than men (RR, 1.98; 95% CI, 1.60 to 2.44; and RR, 1.28; 95% CI, 1.06 to 1.56, respectively). Interestingly, diabetic patients without prior cardiovascular disease had the same event rates for all outcomes as nondiabetic patients with previous vascular disease. CONCLUSIONS Hospitalization for unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction predicts a high 2-year morbidity and mortality; this is especially evident for patients with diabetes. Diabetic patients with no previous cardiovascular disease have the same long-term morbidity and mortality as nondiabetic patients with established cardiovascular disease after hospitalization for unstable coronary artery disease.