Longitudinal changes in maternal corin and mid-regional proatrial natriuretic peptide in women at risk of pre-eclampsia

Objectives Corin, an atrial natriuretic peptide-converting enzyme, has been found to promote trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodeling. Reduced maternal plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels and elevated corin levels have been reported in pregnancies complicated by PE. The aim of this study was to investigate longitudinal changes in maternal plasma levels of corin and midregional proatrial natriuretic peptide (MR-PANP) in pregnancies that develop preeclampsia (PE) and gestational hypertension (GH). Methods Nested case control study drawn from a larger prospective longitudinal study in singleton pregnancies identified by screening at 11 + 0 − 13 + 6 weeks’ gestation as being at high risk for PE. Blood samples were taken every four weeks until delivery. Values were compared in pregnancies that developed preterm-PE (requiring delivery before 37 weeks), term-PE, GH, and those that remained normotensive. The distribution of maternal plasma corin and PANP were made Gaussian after log 10 transformation. Analysis of repeated measures with multilevel mixed-effects linear model (fixed effects and random effects) was performed. The multilevel model was compared to one-level model by the likelihood radio (LR) test. Results A total of 471 samples were analyzed from 122 women, including 85 that remained normotensive, 12 that developed GH, 13 term-PE and 12 preterm-PE. In the normotensive group, log10corin levels were associated with gestational age ( p p = 0.001). In the GH and term-PE groups, corin did not differ significantly from the normotensive group ( p = 0.64 and p = 0.16, respectively). Compared to the normotensive group, MR-PANP levels were significantly higher in the pregnancies that developed preterm-PE and GH ( p = 0.046 and p = 0.019, respectively), but not term-PE ( p = 0.47). Conclusions Maternal plasma corin and MR-PANP could potentially be useful biomarkers for the prediction of preterm-PE. Disclosures A. Khalil: Research Support Recipient; Commercial Interests: USCOM, Roche, Alere, NICOM, Q-fFN; Speaker: Roche.