Prevalence of the Metabolic Syndrome Among Us Adults: Findings From the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey

Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed when three or more of the following criteria are met: abdominal obesity (waist circumference more than 102 cm in men and 88 cm in women); hypertriglyceridemia of 150 mg/dl or above; a high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level less than 40 mg/dl in men or 50 mg/dl in women; blood pressure of 130/85 mm Hg or higher; or fasting glucose of at least 110 mg/dl. Individuals with metabolic syndrome are likelier than others to develop diabetes and cardiovascular disease and have increased mortality from all causes (and from cardiovascular disease in particular). The investigators attempted to determine the prevalence of the syndrome in the United States by analyzing data on 8814 men and women 20 years of age or older who took part in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey in the years 1988 to 1994. This is a cross-sectional health survey of a sample of the noninstitutionalized civilian American population. The overall age-adjusted prevalence of metabolic syndrome was 23.7%. The prevalence rose from 6.7% in persons 20 to 29 years of age to 42% in those aged 70 years and more. There was virtually no gender-related difference in prevalence rates for the combined racial groups. Metabolic syndrome was most prevalent in Mexican Americans and least prevalent in whites, African Americans, and "others. " Among both African Americans and Mexican Americans, women had higher prevalence rates than men. Extrapolating from age-specific prevalence rates and US census counts from the year 2000, 47 million US residents have metabolic syndrome. Considering its prevalence, it seems important to estimate the direct medical costs of metabolic syndrome. In the great majority of cases the critical causes are improper nutrition and insufficient physical activity, emphasizing the importance of controlling obesity and encouraging physical activity in the United States.