BRAF mutation predicts for MEK-dependence in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

5247 Constitutive ERK signaling is common in human cancer and is often the result of activating mutations of BRAF, RAS and upstream receptor tyrosine kinases. Missense BRAF kinase domain mutations are frequently observed in melanoma, colon and thyroid cancers and less frequently in lung and other cancer types. The vast majority (>90%) involve a glutamic acid for valine substitution at codon 600 (V600E), which results in elevated BRAF kinase activity. BRAF kinase domain mutations with intermediate and impaired kinase activity have also been identified, most frequently in NSCLC. We have previously reported that tumors with V600E BRAF mutation are selectively sensitive to MEK inhibition. Using the potent and selective MEK1/2 inhibitor PD0325901 (Pfizer), we examined a panel of NSCLC cell lines with mutant EGFR, KRAS, and/or low, intermediate and high-activity BRAF kinase domain mutations for MEK dependence. In all but one case, EGFR, KRAS and BRAF mutations were mutually exclusive with the exception being a cell line with concurrent NRAS and intermediate activity BRAF mutations. Consistent with our prior results, NSCLC cells with V600E BRAF mutation were exquisitely sensitive to MEK inhibition (PD0325901 IC50 of 2nM). The proliferation of cells with non-V600E mutations, including those with high (G469A), intermediate (L597V) and impaired (G466V) kinase activities, was also MEK dependent with IC50’s ranging between 2.7 and 80 nM. Inhibition of MEK in these cells resulted in downregulation of cyclin D1 and G1 growth arrest, with variable induction of apoptosis. Despite high basal ERK activity, NSCLC tumor cells with EGFR mutation were uniformly resistant to MEK inhibition (at doses of up to 500nM), despite effective and prolonged inhibition of ERK phosphorylation. Tumor cells with RAS mutation had a more variable response, with some cell lines demonstrating sensitivity, while others were completely resistant. There was no correlation between basal ERK activity and sensitivity to MEK inhibition. A strong inverse correlation between Akt activity and PD0325901 sensitivity was observed. These results suggest that MEK inhibition may be useful therapeutically in tumors with V600E and non-V600E BRAF kinase domain mutations. The results also suggest that inhibition of both MEK and Akt signaling may be required in NSCLC tumors with high basal AKT activity.