MicroRNAs: small RNAs with a big role in gene regulation

Key PointsMicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of ∼21–25-nucleotide small RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. The founding members of the miRNA family, lin-4 and let-7, were identified through genetic screens for defects in the temporal regulation of Caenorhabditis elegans larval development. Owing to genome-wide cloning efforts, hundreds of miRNAs have now been identified in almost all metazoans, including flies, plants and mammals. MiRNAs exhibit temporally and spatially regulated expression patterns during diverse developmental and physiological processes. Most of the miRNAs that have been characterized so far seem to regulate aspects of development, including larval developmental transitions and neuronal development in C. elegans, growth control and apoptosis in Drosophila melanogaster, haematopoietic differentiation in mammals, and leaf development, flower development and embryogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. The majority of the animal miRNAs that have been characterized so far affect protein synthesis from their target mRNAs. On the other hand, most of the plant miRNAs studied so far direct the cleavage of their targets. The degree of complementarity between a miRNA and its target, at least in part, determines the regulatory mechanism. In animals, primary transcripts of miRNAs are processed sequentially by two RNase-III enzymes, Drosha and Dicer, into a small, imperfect dsRNA duplex (miRNA:miRNA*) that contains both the mature miRNA strand and its complementary strand (miRNA*). Relative instability at the 5′ end of the mature miRNA leads to the asymmetric assembly of the mature miRNA into the effector complex, the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC).Ago proteins are a key component of the RISC. Multiple Ago homologues in various metazoan genomes indicate the existence of multiple RISCs that carry out related but specific biological functions. Bioinformatic prediction of miRNA targets has provided an important tool to explore the functions of miRNAs. However, the overall success rate of such predictions remains to be determined by experimental validation. AbstractMicroRNAs are a family of small, non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. The two founding members of the microRNA family were originally identified in Caenorhabditis elegans as genes that were required for the timed regulation of developmental events. Since then, hundreds of microRNAs have been identified in almost all metazoan genomes, including worms, flies, plants and mammals. MicroRNAs have diverse expression patterns and might regulate various developmental and physiological processes. Their discovery adds a new dimension to our understanding of complex gene regulatory networks.