Title: 9684.aspx

The grand opening for Scottsdale's newest casino, the Talking Stick Resort, is scheduled for June 10, and already it's being favorably compared to the high end properties on the Las Vegas strip. It's an apt comparison for the Talking Stick Resort, which unofficially opened on April 15, because, as at many of the Las Vegas casinos, the video surveillance system there was a design/build by North American Video (NAV) and M. Malia and Associates (MMA). The 1,500-camera system also features one of the gaming industry's first installations of a serverless storage solution.
"The Talking Stick Resort design/build is an example of our serious commitment to being technically progressive leaders in the video surveillance and security market," said Jason Oakley, CEO, North American Video. "Based on our experience, we understand how a sophisticated and well designed video surveillance system can help mitigate security threats that are unique to a casino environment and we view this project as a clear demonstration of that capability."
NAV was chosen to design and install the hybrid analog/digital video surveillance system after completing a series of product demonstrations for the owner's representative, SICON and the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community (SRP-MIC), operators of the project. The system design includes more than 1,500 cameras. Images from the cameras are recorded on a serverless computing platform and the solution provides both storage and server resources in a single array.
"NAV's expertise and dedication helped bring the surveillance system online," said Arif Siddique, President, SICON. "We are pleased to have completed another successful NAV/SICON project."
The Talking Stick Resort, an enterprise of the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, is located in Scottsdale, Arizona. In addition to the 240,000 square foot casino, the property will feature a world-class resort offering 497 deluxe guest rooms and suites, a state-of-the-art spa, multiple fine dining and casual restaurants, a grand ballroom and a 36-hole championship golf course.